Turning hops into South Africa's 'next wine'
It's almost impossible to grow hops in South Africa. The hot, dry climate is a killer. But some of the beer-loving nation's farmers are beating the odds and rapidly cultivating a reputation as suppliers of the highly flavored varieties that craft brewers need.   The prospects are so good that Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD), the world's biggest brewer, believes the country could become a net exporter of the flowers by 2021.   "We believe hops can be the next wine from South Africa," said John Rogers, director of raw material procurement and agricultural development for Africa at AB InBev.   South Africa is currently the 7th largest wine producer in the world, according to the International Organization of Vine and Wine, making roughly 11 million hectoliters per year -- about 4% of global production. It's also the 6th largest exporter, with total volumes ahead of the US.   In contrast, South African hops constitute just under 1% of global production due largely to the tough growing conditions.   The hops it manages to grow, however, are highly sought after for their flavor. Local aromatic varieties such as African Queen and Southern Passion are used, for example, by California's Faction Brewing Company to make its 2Hop Pale Ale.   Rogers says 424 hectares of land in South Africa's Western Cape province is the only place in the world where these distinctive aroma flavors can be grown on a commercial basis.     Through its mammoth takeover of SABMiller in 2016, Budweiser-brewer AB InBev acquired a significant presence in the country. (SABMiller began life more than a century ago as Johannesburg's Castle Brewery.)   Following the deal, the "King of Beers" pledged to spend more than $500,000 from 2018 to 2020 on hop farming and broader agricultural development in South Africa.   The program is focused on improving yields, which currently lie below the global average, by investing in better irrigation technology. They also plan to add more acreage to production.   It's an uphill struggle.   There was a 20% drop in South African hop production in 2017 due to a severe lack of rainfall.   Rogers says the 2018 crop is looking healthier, but the prospects for this year's harvest remain uncertain as the Western Cape remains gripped by the worst recorded drought in its history.     Changing global market dynamics could generate another headwind. In the US, South Africa's largest export market, growth in craft beer sales slowed sharply in 2017. At the same time, hop supply is increasing -- total US hop acreage has almost doubled in the past five years.   However, AB InBev's Rogers remains confident of turning South Africa into a net hop exporter as it accounts for such a small proportion of the global crop and demand continues for this "high-quality, niche product."   AB InBev's South African Breweries Hop Farms and their contracted private growers produce on average 850 tonnes of hops a year. AB InBev hopes to increase this to 1,000 by 2021 and channel all of the additional crop into the export market.   South African hops are used in local beers like Castle, but also exported to 20 countries around the world.  India is growing faster than China again
India is the fastest growing major economy again. Growth accelerated in the quarter ended December to 7.2%, the government said Wednesday. That's faster than China's growth over the same period, and a big jump from the 6.5% India recorded the previous quarter.   The latest GDP numbers point to a clear strengthening of India's recovery from a sharp slump in the first half of 2017, when growth fell from 7% to a three-year low of 5.7% after two disruptive policy changes by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.   The country was stunned in November 2016 when Modi abruptly banned its two largest currency notes, leading to a sharp slump in many sectors of India's cash economy. A landmark overhaul of the tax system in July last year also disrupted business, as many companies struggled to adapt to the new regime.   India is expected to further widen the gap over China in 2018, with the International Monetary Fund predicting last month that it will grow by 7.4% this year.   So far, so good.   "[It's] clearly a strong pickup," said Priyanka Kishore, lead Asia economist at Oxford Economics.   "There is still some anecdotal evidence out there of [the tax overhaul] still being a bit of a worry for certain industries, especially the smaller businesses," Kishore added.   Recent efforts to simplify the system mean India will soon "be leaving all those worries behind," he said.   Modi's administration has set its sights even higher.   "This government has really pushed for major structural reforms, and they should start paying rich dividends in about a year," Amitabh Kant, one of the government's top policy advisors, told CNN's John Defterios in an interview earlier this week.   Growth of 10% or more, Kant said, is "very doable."  Tens of thousands of Medicaid recipients don't pay their premiums
When Arkansas lawmakers debated whether to renew the state's Medicaid expansion in 2016, many Republican lawmakers were swayed only if some of the 300,000 adults who gained coverage would have to start paying premiums. This "skin-in-the-game" provision — endorsed by conservatives in Washington and in many statehouses — is designed to make Medicaid recipients value their government health insurance more and lead healthier lives.   It's "to encourage more personal responsibility," Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson told reporters in 2016. "We want to incentivize better, healthy living."   Yet few enrollees are paying the $13 monthly premiums, which apply only to Medicaid recipients whose earnings surpass the poverty level. In 2017, just 20% of the 63,000 Arkansas enrollees paid. For now, Medicaid enrollees in Arkansas don't lose coverage for lack of payment.   Arkansas is not the only state where Medicaid recipients who gained coverage under the Affordable Care Act disregard the new premiums. Tens of thousands of Medicaid enrollees in four other states that added premiums during the past four years— Indiana, Michigan, Iowa and Montana — have also opted not to pay, according to state records.   Under the ACA, states received millions of federal dollars to cover everyone with incomes under 138% of the federal poverty level (about $16,700 for an individual today). Previously, Medicaid mainly covered only low-income children, disabled adults and parents.   Premiums, which are routine obligations in private health insurance and Medicare, were not a part of Medicaid until that expansion in 2014. But in these five states, conservative lawmakers were hesitant to expand the federal-state program unless they secured fees from nondisabled adults.   Kentucky has received approval to add premiums in 2018.   "We believe the premiums are important to prepare these beneficiaries for what would be required of them if they move up the economic ladder and get coverage through an employer or the federal marketplace," said Arkansas Medicaid spokeswoman Amy Webb. "It's a small amount, especially considering the benefit they are receiving. Under an employer or at the marketplace, they would lose their coverage for failure to pay."   Advocates for Medicaid say it is not surprising that significant numbers of Medicaid enrollees fall behind on their payments.   "Families have to make tough choices every day about whether they buy food, pay the electric bill, their rent, or pay premiums," said Rich Huddleston, executive director of Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families. He notes that even the state's $13 monthly premium is burdensome.   Still, the experience in the five states shows converting conservatives' "skin-in-the-game" mantra into practice has many administrative challenges.   Michigan requires Medicaid enrollees with incomes above the poverty level to pay 2% of their income in monthly premiums, though the amount could be decreased if they engage in so-called healthy behaviors, such as getting a flu shot or trying to quit smoking.   A survey of enrollees last year in Michigan found nearly 88% said the amount they had to pay was "fair," and 72% said they agreed that they would "rather take some responsibility to pay something for their health care than not pay anything."   But from January through August last year, fewer than half of Michigan Medicaid recipients who owed a premium — about 77,000 of 175,000 — paid it.   And premiums were not the only new obligation that many these enrollees are failing to meet. The state's Medicaid expansion also required them to fill out a health risk assessment form with their doctor and promise to improve their health. In return, members could lower their premiums or gain a $50 gift card.   Of the 900,104 beneficiaries who have been enrolled in Medicaid for at least six months, 19% have completed this chore, according to state records.   For most enrollees this is voluntary. But enrollees with incomes above 100% of the poverty level could lose Medicaid coverage if they don't fill out the form to attest they will try to improve their health. Michigan, in particular, is getting tough: In February, it mailed letters to 13,550 beneficiaries informing them that they failed to meet this requirement and they will be moved off Medicaid. They will have to choose a private plan on the Obamacare insurance marketplace or will be automatically enrolled in one in June.   Dr. Renuka Tipirneni, a researcher with the University of Michigan Institute for Healthcare Policy & Innovation, said it's unclear if these enrollees will be worse off in the private plans since many will get subsidies to help cover their premium costs. But they may face a larger cost-sharing portion or have to change doctors.   Michigan officials last year also sent 68,000 Medicaid enrollees who owed premiums a notice that they would garnish any state income tax refunds or lottery winnings. That led about 7,000 recipients to pay. The state last year collected premium money from 19,400 through their tax refunds and another 59 from their lottery winnings, according to a state report.   Arkansas officials also plan to intercept state tax refunds to recoup unpaid premiums, but not until 2019.   Other states have mixed records on collecting Medicaid premiums, according to state reports:   -- Indiana is the only state to lock enrollees out of Medicaid for six months for failure to pay — and about 10,000 recipients fell into that category in 2016. Kentucky recently received federal permission to add a similar lockout provision this year.   -- Iowa disenrolled more than 14,000 Medicaid enrollees from January 2016 to September 2017 for failure to pay a $10 monthly Medicaid premium, though they could re-enroll at any time. More than 40,000 Medicaid enrollees with incomes over 50% of the poverty level were subject to a premium in September 2017 and about three-quarters of them had not paid nor completed a health risk assessment form that would have waived the fee.   -- Montana's Medicaid program dropped 2,884 adults with incomes over the poverty level in 2017 for failing to pay a premium. The state charges 2% of the enrollee's monthly income. Montana allows those dropped to re-enroll at any time without paying.   Kaiser Health News is a nonprofit news service covering health issues. It is an editorially independent program of the Kaiser Family Foundation that is not affiliated with Kaiser Permanente.  Double trouble: Brexit and online rivals slam UK retailers
Retailers are emerging as one of the biggest casualties of Brexit. At least 5,300 UK retail jobs are at risk after Toys "R" Us and electronics chain Maplin collapsed on Wednesday. They folded because of online competition and Brexit-fueled economic pain.   In total, Britain has lost 65,000 retail jobs since it voted to leave the European Union, according to the most recent data from the Office for National Statistics.   Here's what's bringing retailers to their knees:   1. Brexit vote fallout    PwC, which is in charge of winding down Maplin, said the chain had been hit hard by weaker consumer spending and more expensive imports.   Higher import costs can be traced to the EU referendum in June, 2016.   The British pound dropped dramatically following the vote, making it more expensive for retailers to purchase goods from abroad. That has translated into high prices for consumers.   Inflation, which began last year at 1.8%, now stands at 3% -- well above average wage growth.   Shoppers are feeling the squeeze. The latest data from Visa show that consumer spending fell in January over the previous year. It was the eighth drop in the past nine months.   "Retail sales growth was broadly flat at the beginning of the New Year with the longer-term picture showing a continued slowdown in the sector," said Rhian Murphy, senior statistician at the ONS, earlier this month.   2. Online competition   Traditional retailers are also facing increasingly tough competition from online stores such as Amazon (AMZN).   Toys and electronics, which make up the bulk of the products sold by the retailers that collapsed Wednesday, are among the items most popular with online shoppers.   The share of UK sales that are made online has doubled over the past five years to 20%, according to the ONS.   Experts say more stores will close in 2018 as traditional retailers struggle to keep pace with online rivals.   "The store still has a key role to play, but there will be fewer of them," Deloitte analysts wrote in a research note.   3. Uncertain future   The UK will leave the EU in March 2019. The British government has proposed a two-year transition period to help companies adjust to life outside the bloc.   But it has not finalized the details of the transition with the EU -- or said what kind of relationship it wants in future with its biggest export market.   Retailers, many of which sell imported goods, need to know the details so that they can plan how to source products at prices affordable to their customers.   "It's imperative we get clarity and a definitive agreement over the next month's Brexit negotiations around the exact form of the transition arrangements," said Helen Dickinson, CEO of the British Retail Consortium.   And there's still a chance the talks between the EU and UK could collapse, leading to a dramatic severing of ties that would be even more economically damaging.   Retailers are also worried about the 6% of their staff who come from EU countries. Employers are worried that Brexit will encourage many to leave and potential job applicants to stay away.   Given very low unemployment, finding replacements could be tricky. The British Retail Consortium warned last year that prices in stores will go up if EU workers can't be hired easily.  Brexit dream of 'frictionless' trade with EU is dying 
Prime Minister Theresa May wants trade between the UK and Europe after Brexit to be "as frictionless as possible." But it's increasingly clear that dream is dying.   One of the EU's top officials left no doubt on Thursday that May's current plan to ditch rules governing the bloc's internal market and leave its customs union will result in new barriers to trade.   "There can be no frictionless trade outside of the customs union and the single market," said Donald Tusk, president of the council of all 28 EU member states. "Friction is an inevitable side effect of Brexit. By nature," he added just hours before a scheduled meeting with May.   With little more than a year to go before Brexit, the British government is under increasing pressure from the EU and business groups to put more detail behind its divorce plans.   Tensions spiked sharply this week after the EU released a draft legal text based on what was agreed in the first phase of the negotiations. It contained provisions that May said "no UK prime minister could ever agree."   May, whose party is riven by internal conflict, has not explained how she plans to address major stumbling blocks that threaten to derail talks with the EU.   The British prime minister has said she wants frictionless trade, but also says the UK will leave the customs union and single market. The EU has long maintained that countries outside the single market cannot enjoy its benefits.   There's still a chance that talks could collapse, leading to a dramatic severing of ties that would result in great damage to the UK's economy. May has been urged to detail her plan more clearly in a speech on Friday.   Businesses and industry groups have warned that new trade barriers would hurt their operations in the UK.   'Damage limitation'   A group of UK lawmakers outlined the consequences for one crucial sector -- autos -- in a report on Thursday. The lawmakers said that retaining access to the single market was crucial for the industry, which supports 900,000 jobs.   "Leaving the EU without a deal would undoubtedly be hugely damaging to the UK automotive sector, more so than to other European countries," the Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy committee said. "We urge the government to ... pursue an exercise in damage limitation in the negotiations."   Meanwhile, the UK and EU have been sparring over the return of a physical border on the island of Ireland, an extremely complicated issue that was not fully resolved in the first phase of negotiations.   London pledged last year to find a solution that would avoid customs checks at the border between Northern Ireland (part of the UK) and Ireland (part of the EU). But no such proposal has materialized.   The EU outlined its position in the draft legal document on Wednesday, proposing a common regulatory area that would keep Northern Ireland in its customs union if Britain does not come up with an acceptable solution.   May said that such an arrangement would threaten the "constitutional integrity" of the UK.   "In a few hours I will be asking in London whether the UK government has a better idea," Tusk said Thursday.  Germany and other allies are really, really angry about Trump's tariffs 
Backlash to President Trump's announcement of steep tariffs on steel and aluminum was swift and angry from some of the United States' most important trading partners — and top US allies are pledging to retaliate, if necessary. Trump said Thursday that his administration will impose a 25% tariff on steel imports and a 10% tariff on aluminum imports as early as next week, in order to boost domestic manufacturers.   It's not yet clear whether some key US trading partners will be exempt — which means even the European Union and Canada, the largest supplier of steel to the US, could get hit with the new duties.   The EU and Canada both expressed their opposition to the new tariffs shortly after they were announced, and said they weren't afraid to retaliate.   "We will not sit idly while our industry is hit with unfair measures that put thousands of European jobs at risk," European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said in a statement.   Juncker said the EU will "react firmly and commensurately," and will develop a plan to retaliate, per World Trade Organization rules, "in the next few days." Steel industry groups in Europe came out in support of that move on Thursday.   "The EU must respond decisively to US punitive tariffs, which endanger thousands of jobs in Europe," said German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel. "There should be no doubt about that in Washington."   The British government said in a statement that it was "particularly concerned" about new trade barriers, and said countries must work together to solve problems of overcapacity.   Canada, meanwhile, said that any trade restrictions on Canadian steel and aluminum would be "absolutely unacceptable."   "Should restrictions be imposed on Canadian steel and aluminum products, Canada will take responsive measures to defend its trade interests and workers," Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said in a statement.   US trading partners are worried first and foremost about how the sizable taxes will affect demand for their steel and aluminum exports.   "This announcement is disappointing," Australian Trade Minister Steven Ciobo told reporters on Friday. "An imposition of a tariff like this will do nothing other than distort trade, and ultimately ... will lead to a loss of jobs."   Australia's share of the U.S. steel and aluminum markets is worth around $550 million in total, Ciobo said. He said Australia is pushing for the Trump administration to exempt it from the new tariffs.   South Korea, a key US ally that shipped 3.6 million tons of steel products to the US in 2017, said it would continue to talk to the Trump administration in hopes of minimizing damage to its economy.   Affected countries aren't likely to take a big economic hit lying down.   "This is the opening salvo in a trade war. The countries we deal with are not going to sit there and take this," said Phil Levy, senior fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, and a former White House economist under former President George W. Bush.   Countries are also taking issue with the method the US is using for the trade measures.   Trump will implement the tariffs under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act, a little-known trade law from 1962. To do that, Trump must claim that steel and aluminum imports hurt the country's national security.   Critics say that justification is a stretch, and makes a mockery of international trade rules.   "It is entirely inappropriate to view any trade with Canada as a national security threat to the United States," Freeland said in Canada's statement.   International trade experts believe that the policy mechanism behind the president's decision will make it easier for other countries to enact tit-for-tat tariffs in the name of national security.   "It opens up a Pandora's box for how trading partners might respond," said Chad Bown, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.   He added: "Retaliation would harm American companies, farmers, and workers that export and who — as innocent bystanders — have nothing to do with steel or aluminum."   It's not yet clear which US industries would be at risk. American agricultural exports, like soybeans, are thought to be particularly exposed.   China has not yet weighed in on the tariffs, but expressed its strong opposition when the Commerce Department released its proposals last month.   At the time, the Chinese Commerce Ministry voiced "strong dissatisfaction" with the proposed tariffs, and said they would "[aggravate] the global trade environment."   The US imports the most steel — 16% — from Canada. It imports 13% from Brazil, 10% from South Korea, 9% from Mexico and 9% from Russia, according to a Department of Commerce report from December 2017. China clocks in at number 11.   In terms of value, Canada, South Korea and Mexico are the top three exporters to the US.   The top five countries from which the United States imported aluminum in 2017 were Canada, China, Russia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain, according to Panjiva, a global trade research firm recently acquired by S&P Global.   -- Qiaoqiao Yu contributed to this report.  Fed's Powell sees 'no evidence' the US economy is overheating
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell sees no sign that US economy is building too much steam. The job market is tight, but Powell isn't worried that wages are rising too quickly, which can lead to inflation. If anything, he's surprised wages haven't risen faster.   "There's no evidence that the US economy may be overheating," Powell said during a Senate Banking Committee hearing. The newly minted Fed chair made his second appearance on Capitol Hill this week to deliver the central bank's twice-a-year report on the state of the US economy.   Wage gains have been slow in the years since the Great Recession, which is one reason it hasn't felt much like a recovery to many people. Wages finally picked up in January, growing at the fastest pace in nine years.   "I'll be honest, I would have thought you'd seen more wages increase by this point," Powell said during the hearing. "And I do think you'll begin to see wage increases coming."   Fed officials have been patiently waiting for paychecks to grow. The challenge ahead for policymakers will be to stay one step ahead of price pressures.   "The thing we don't want to have happen is to get behind the curve of inflation and have to raise rates quickly and cause a recession," Powell told lawmakers.   The Fed has been trying to nudge inflation higher without risking a recession. It remains below 2%, the level the Fed considers healthy for the economy. Fed officials anticipate inflation will get closer to their target this year.   For years, when unemployment was higher, the risk of inflation was low — and not much of a worry for the Fed. Now that unemployment is historically low, central bankers have to be more careful about keeping it in check.   Historically, the Fed has done a poor job of braking fast enough without causing an economic downturn.   That's why, for now, Powell believes the right course is for the Fed to raise rates gradually to help extend the nine-year economic expansion. The US central bank has penciled in three rate hikes in 2018.   "My expectation is that will continue to be the appropriate path as long as the economy performs this way," Powell said.   The Fed chair boosted his economic outlook earlier this week during a House Financial Services Committee. The rosy forecast caused investors to raise the odds the Fed may go further and raise rates four times this year.   The Fed holds its next interest-rate policy setting meeting later this month.  Italy's economy is still stuck in 1st gear
Italy has a laundry list of economic problems: Young people struggle to find work, national debt is through the roof and banks are saddled with bad loans. Growth has ticked higher in recent years, but not enough to satisfy voters who will go to the polls on Sunday.   Italy's economy is still around 6% smaller than it was in 2008, before the European debt crisis exploded, according to UBS. Investment is down 20% from its peak before the crisis.   Here's a look at what's gone wrong:   Poor career prospects   Voters say their biggest concern is rampant unemployment, according to a survey by the European Commission.   More young people have found jobs in recent years, but a third of Italians between the ages of 25 and 29 remain unemployed. It's one of the highest rates in Europe.   The labor market is tough even for university graduates: Only 64% of young people with degrees are employed, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.   It takes graduates roughly a year to find their first full time job, according to Eurostat. Many willing workers are forced to accept short-term contacts or part-time work.     There simply aren't enough entry level jobs. When the Bank of Italy advertised 30 junior positions last year, it reportedly received over 80,000 applications.   Mountain of debt   Italy has struggled with a mountain of government debt for years. Net national debt is over 120% of GDP, putting it in the same league as Japan.   Jack Allen, an economist at Capital Economics, said more government spending would cause investors to worry.   "Even a small fiscal stimulus could lead to increased concerns about debt sustainability," he said.     Italy's banking sector is also troubled. More than 15% of loans to households and businesses have gone bad, compared to 2.5% in Germany and 3.7% in France, according to the European Central Bank.   Rome has forked out billions of euros in recent years to rescue banks and stabilize the financial sector.   No appetite for reform   Economists say the country needs major reforms to boost growth and bring down its debt burden.   But with opinion polls suggesting a highly fragmented parliament as the most likely outcome of Sunday's vote, dramatic changes are unlikely.     "Whichever parties form the next government, they seem unlikely to turn the economy around," said Allen. "None have a clear plan to strengthen the banks, and neither do they intend to make it much easier to do business in the country."   Italy has a habit of churning through governments, and many fade away without having much of an impact.   Silver linings     Still, recent indicators suggest the country's slow recovery is gathering pace. Business confidence surveys show optimism at its highest level in over a decade.   Meanwhile, private consumption and investment are growing from a depressed base.   Economic growth is expected to hit 1.5% this year, which UBS analysts described as "strong by Italian standards."  Superstar burger chef credits prison for his success
By 11 a.m., the first hungry customers start milling about outside of James Purifoy's burger joint, 15th & Chris in Rockford, Illinois. By noon, the line often snakes around the small, red building and into the parking lot. "Some of the customers I see so often that I already know what they're ordering, just by the way they're standing and looking at me," says Purifoy.   Purifoy opened 15th & Chris in September 2014 and in less than four years, he's become a local culinary celebrity. The no-frills operation offers no indoor seating, just a few picnic tables out front. But people come from miles around for Purifoy's burgers.   "They're not just coming from 20 or 30 minutes away. Someone in Minnesota saw my review on social media and ended up at 15th & Chris to try my burger," he boasts.   Purifoy created every burger recipe on the menu and named them himself.   Among some of the most popular burgers is The Mackaveli, a patty with BBQ sauce, melted cheese and beer-battered onion rings. Then there is The First Lady burger, which is basted with steak sauce and topped with Swiss cheese, mushrooms, grilled onions and mayo.   Oddly enough, Purifoy says he wouldn't be here if he hadn't served time in prison.    Surrounding 15th & Chris are the housing projects where Purifoy and his siblings were raised by their mother. "We were six kids and she was a single parent with multiple jobs," he says.   Although he was the first in his family to make it through high school, he says "inner city street life" eventually consumed him. "I was in a gang. I had a gun, I was dealing drugs to make money for myself and for the family," he recalls.   He was arrested multiple times as a teenager. Then, when he was 17, he shot a rival gang member. "I never thought it was right, but I didn't want to die either. For me, I had to stop them before they got me," he says.   At 19, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison.   Walking into the penitentiary was a wake-up call. "I decided prison was not going to be my revolving door anymore," says Purifoy.   He took classes to pass the time. He pursued an associate degree in automotive technology, followed by vocational certificates in custodial services and building maintenance. But it was the associate degree he attained in culinary arts that struck a chord with him.   "I remember watching my mom cook and wondering how she made things taste the way they did. It always intrigued me," says Purifoy.   Eventually, he became head chef at one of the prisons where he was serving out his sentence. While there, he designed and cooked meals for an inmate population of 2,800. As his confidence grew, Purifoy knew cooking would one day help him get back on his feet.     In 2004, Purifoy was released. He was 29 years old.   At first, he landed odd jobs and took business classes at a local community college. He saved his money and started a small trucking company, JFP Trucking, which he ran for a few years.   Work was steady, but his heart wasn't in it. "Cooking was my passion," he says.   The self-described "burger fanatic" couldn't stop thinking about how the neighborhood was desperately in need of a great burger joint.   In 2012, Purifoy drove past an abandoned shack that used to sell ice cream. "I thought, well, there it is. I'm going to open my burger spot there."   Purifoy sold JFP Trucking to raise capital. He also received a $50,000 grant from the city and drummed up additional help from family. Two years later, after putting a total of nearly $100,00 into renovations, he opened 15th & Chris.   Today, the business has 10 employees, including a few workers who have served time in prison. "These are people from all walks of life. They've been to prison and just need a chance now for a fresh start," says Purifoy. "They need jobs."   Purifoy starts his day shortly after 5 a.m., helping his wife Latasha get their five young children ready for school. After that, he heads to the restaurant where he cooks and helps serve the food.   The business is now profitable and Purifoy is looking to expand, he says. Last year, he bought a food truck to cater events, but now he is using it every day to sell his burgers around town.   Up next: To open another restaurant in Rockford, one with more indoor space so he can offer table service.   Across the parking lot from 15th & Chris is Penguin Foods, a third-generation meat shop and catering business.   "He buys ground beef and sausages from us for his restaurant," said owner John Ciembronowicz. Purifoy, in turn, uses the freezers in Ciembronowicz's shop to store his supplies.   "We help each other out," says Ciembronowicz. "The way he's turned his life around is incredible. And he's helped to revitalize this area, too...Small businesses like ours are vital to this community."   Purifoy is trying to give back to the community in other ways, too.   "I speak with inner city kids just like me and I'm very upfront about my life story," he says. "I tell them that education is everything. If you know better, you do better in life."   Watch Our City Our Story's full video of James Purifoy's story.  NY Fed chief says tariffs risk 'trade war' as Trump eyes protectionist action 
New York Federal Reserve President William Dudley lambasted tariffs and other protectionist trade policies on Thursday. "Raising trade barriers would risk setting off a trade war, which could damage economic growth prospects around the world," Dudley said in a speech at the Central Bank of Brazil in São Paulo. Although short-term gains are appealing, "in the longer term it would almost certainly be destructive."   The speech comes the same day that President Trump announced that he would impose a 10% tariff on imported aluminum and a 25% tariff on imported steel. It was unclear if Trump would exempt any countries from the measure. Brazil, where Dudley spoke, is one of the top steel exporters to the United States. Trump said the tariff would be made official next week.     Trade economists say Trump's actions could spark retaliation from China and other nations. That would be a trade war.   Dudley, currently the No. 2 in rank on the Fed's powerful policy committee, did not name Trump, nor did he address the specific measures on steel and aluminum. But his views clearly conflict with Trump's view on trade.   Dudley, not known for gloomy remarks, said trade restrictions, such as tariffs or quotas, won't save jobs as Trump believes. Dudley added that higher trade barriers "often backfire," and create long-term costs in the form of retaliation, higher consumer costs, higher production costs and less competitive industries in the United States.   "The expectation that higher trade barriers would save jobs ignores these critical second-round effects," Dudley said.   Dudley noted that free trade hasn't benefited everyone, and that countries must pursue policies that better distribute the economic and social gains of globalization. He advocated for more job training, job search assistance and unemployment aid.   Dudley also dismissed the US trade deficit as a major concern. Trump's trade team is renegotiating NAFTA, the pact with Canada and Mexico, and his stated, top goal is to slash the US trade deficit with Mexico. He says the $71 billion trade deficit shows America is losing companies, money and jobs to Mexico.   Dudley says foreign investment in the United States fills in the gap of the trade deficit.   "There are many approaches to dealing with the costs of globalization, but protectionism is a dead end," Dudley said.  People with pre-existing conditions could face tough times ahead
President Donald Trump and his administration are taking steps to lower premiums, increase choice and foster competition in the health insurance market. All of that sounds good -- until one realizes that the changes are coming largely at the expense of millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions. The administration has issued two proposed rules in recent months that will allow more people to sign up for alternatives to Obamacare. But the actions are expected to mainly help younger and healthier consumers, while hurting those with spottier health histories.   That's because the proposed regulations, combined with Congress' elimination of the individual mandate next year, will whittle away at Obamacare's sweeping protections for those with pre-existing conditions. This will leave those who are or who have been sick at risk of paying higher premiums, losing their comprehensive coverage or being left without an insurer on the Affordable Care Act exchanges.   "The end result is that you will have two markets," said Sabrina Corlette, research professor at Georgetown University's Health Policy Institute. "One that's for young and healthy individuals who don't need a lot of health care, and another that will provide comprehensive coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, but will be much more expensive."   Obamacare revolutionized health insurance for people with pre-existing conditions. Under the health reform law, insurers could no longer deny coverage to consumers because of their medical history or base premiums on it. Also, carriers were required to cover 10 essential health benefits, including maternity care, mental health services and prescription drugs.   These provisions were among Obamacare's most popular reforms, but they were also one of the main reasons why coverage on the individual market became so pricey. That has made these protections a target.   Shortly after Congress abandoned its attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare in late September, Trump issued an executive order that he said would give millions of Americans more access to affordable coverage. The president's directive laid the foundations for the two proposed rules.  Since Congress can't get its act together on HealthCare, I will be using the power of the pen to give great HealthCare to many people - FAST  The first one, unveiled in early January, would make it easier for small businesses to band together based on their industry or location and buy coverage through so-called association health plans.   The proposal would allow association plans to be regulated in the same way as large employer plans. That would free them from having to adhere to all of Obamacare's rules, particularly the one requiring insurers to offer comprehensive coverage. So these plans would likely have lower premiums, but also provide fewer benefits -- which could leave sicker and older workers out in the cold. Also, the offerings could be less attractive to young women if they don't cover maternity benefits.   The proposed regulation would also allow associations to base rates on gender and age, which could leave younger men paying less but older workers and women saddled with higher rates. Currently, the Affordable Care Act bans basing premiums on gender and limits the amount that can be based on age. However, plans would not be allowed to set premiums based on workers' health status.   If the proposed rule is finalized in coming weeks, premiums for Obamacare policies would rise 3.5% to an average of $15,000 a year, largely because healthier enrollees would opt for association plans, according to a new study by Avalere Health, a consulting firm. Those buying the new small business plans would pay $5,300, on average.    "The proposed rule would lead to millions of individuals and small businesses shifting into a new form of coverage, likely reducing their premiums, but leading to higher premiums in the markets they leave behind," said Chris Sloan, senior manager at Avalere.   The administration's second proposed regulation, which was released last week, will make it easier to obtain coverage through short-term health insurance plans by allowing insurers to sell policies that last just under a year. The proposal would reverse an Obama administration decision to limit the duration of short-term health plans to no more than 90 days in order to make them less attractive.   Short-term plans are allowed to exclude those with pre-existing conditions and can base rates on an applicant's medical history. They don't have to offer comprehensive coverage and they can impose annual or lifetime limits on benefits, meaning they may only pay out a set amount -- often $1 million or less -- leaving the policyholder on the hook for the rest.  Also, they don't have to cap the amount consumers have to pay in deductibles and co-pays every year.   Consumers today can find short-term plans that cost as little as 20% of the least expensive Obamacare plan, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. Once short-term plans are available, healthy people may turn to them instead of Obamacare policies, pushing up the rates for those who remain on the exchanges.   Congress' elimination of the individual mandate could also hurt those with pre-existing conditions, particularly those who don't qualify for federal premium subsidies, health policy experts say. Without the mandate, which requires nearly all Americans to get coverage or pay a penalty, healthy people will have less incentive to enroll. So premiums for those left on the exchanges are likely to rise.   Even more concerning, experts are waiting to see whether insurers want to remain on the exchanges in 2019 if policyholders are older and sicker. For a while last year, it looked like tens of thousands of people could have had no choice of insurer in 2018 as carriers dropped out amid all the uncertainty in Washington D.C. However, state officials were able to convince insurers to cover all the so-called bare counties before open enrollment began in November.  Trump's new tariffs could make beer, cars and baseball bats more expensive
Beer, baseball bats and cars could get more expensive after President Trump imposes tariffs on foreign steel and aluminum. And that's only the beginning. Tariffs, quotas or both could also start a trade war with China.   Trump said Thursday that his administration will impose a 25% tariff on steel imports and 10% tariff on aluminum. He said the official announcement will come next week. It was not clear whether Trump would exempt some countries from the tariffs, as his national security advisers have urged him to do to avoid hurting American allies.   At the heart of the looming trade action is Trump's campaign promise to create good-paying jobs in the United States, particularly in factories, by getting tough on trade. Trump argues that American factory workers have been treated unfairly by trade deals, and many workers agree.   Researchers, though, say automation is much more of a job-killer and the United States should focus more on job training than tariffs. (Trump has said job training is important, but his commitment to funding it is mixed.)   The stock market fell sharply after the announcement. The Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq fell more than 1%. US Steel (X) rose by 6%.   The United States is the world's biggest importer of steel and aluminum, so any of these options would ripple throughout the global economy.   Both metals are crucial raw material for autos, airplanes and appliances made in the United States. The construction, oil and utility industries use them for beams, pipelines and wires, as well as cans for food and drinks.   Imports make up about a third of the 100 million tons of steel used by American businesses every year. More than 60% of the overall market for aluminum supply comes from imports, according to the Aluminum Association, citing 2017 data.   The tariffs by themselves will probably make ordinary items produced with aluminum — think beer cans and baseball bats — more expensive, assuming the companies that make them decide to pass the cost of the tax on to customers. History shows that's generally what happens.   "This action will cause aluminum prices to rise and is likely to lead to job losses across the beer industry," Molson Coors said in a statement. "American workers and American consumers will suffer as a result of this misguided tariff."   The Beer Institute, an industry group, said the 10% aluminum tariff would result in the loss of 20,300 jobs at bars, breweries and every task in between. It cited an analysis from John Dunham & Associates, an economic consulting firm in New York.   Manufacturing advocates say the price increases would be small because the trade measures would boost steel and aluminum production in the United States. U.S. Steel stock jumped 5% on Thursday in anticipation of a tariff announcement.   Those manufacturing advocates also note that when global aluminum prices fell more than 25% a couple years ago, beer companies didn't slash prices at the store. The advocates call hypocrisy on beer companies for complaining now about higher aluminum prices.   Now that Trump has promised tariffs, one big question is how other countries, especially China, might retaliate.   They could slap their own tariffs on American products. Farmers in particular are worried. The United States is one of the world's top producers of soybeans, and its top client for soy is China, one of the countries that Ross recommended targeting with tariffs.   American manufacturers also depend heavily on selling their products abroad to stay afloat and could be hurt by tariffs overseas.   The United States imports most of its steel — 16% — from Canada. It imports 13% from Brazil, 10% from South Korea, 9% from Mexico and 9% from Russia, according to a Department of Commerce report from December 2017.     China would still feel the pain from protective U.S. measures. A lot of China's steel makes its way to the United States indirectly. Economists say China sends unfinished steel products to South Korea and Vietnam, where workers put on the final touches before the finished product is shipped to the United States under another country's label.   The Business Roundtable, a powerful business lobby, said in a statement that it strongly disagreed with Trump's decision. Tariffs will "hurt the U.S. economy and American companies, workers and consumers by raising prices and resulting in foreign retaliation against U.S. exporters," the organization said.   The European Union and Canada both condemned the decision and hinted at retaliation.   There's no telling where a trade war might lead, or where it would end. Trade wars can get out of control. The last large-scale trade war made the Great Depression in the 1930s worse.   This all started last year, when the Trump administration invoked a rarely used law to argue that imports of steel and aluminum from all nations put U.S. national security at risk.   Trade experts compare the law to a sledgehammer. It gives Trump unchecked power: He can raise tariffs or quotas as high as he wants without congressional approval.   There is little doubt that China sells its steel at unfairly low prices. Previous administrations already imposed hundreds of trade sanctions against Chinese steel imported into the United States.   Many economists say China is still flooding global markets with cheap steel, which suppresses prices of steel from other countries that export to the United States.   It's unclear whether tariffs or quotas would fix that global glut of steel. The only certain outcome, trade experts say, is that China would strike back.   CNN's Jeremy Diamond contributed reporting to this article   Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the amount of aluminum used in the United States that is imported.  The U.S. needs to do a better job training its workers. Here's how
If President Trump were to get his ambitious $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan through Congress, the country would need a lot more workers for all of the construction projects that would get underway. That poses a problem: Builders are already having a hard time finding skilled workers, says Ahu Yildirmaz, head of the ADP Research Institute. The payroll company says wages for workers in the field rise 4.8% over the year, and 5.9% for those who switch jobs — a sign that bosses are poaching from one another, rather than hiring the unemployed.   "Firms are paying to retain their employees, but it's not easy to find the skilled construction workers as it is in other industries," says Yildirmaz.   But it's not just construction that needs help. Industries from health care to manufacturing have also voiced a need for more skilled workers and there's also mounting evidence that automation will fundamentally change or kill off many job categories entirely — creating even more need for programs that retrain America's workforce.   Trump's infrastructure plan includes some proposals for training more workers, such as allowing Pell Grants to be used for short-term certificate programs, and creating more opportunities for work-based learning in high school.   To that end, the White House's budget said it would "reorganize and consolidate" the $17 billion it spends on job training annually through 14 government agencies.   While details are scant for now, the budget contains a few clues: It would cut programs that deal with worker health and safety, $733 million in supplemental tuition aid and $1.2 billion for after school education programs, among other reductions.   Congress likely won't go along with all of those cuts, but they may take some of Trump's recommendations. And though workforce development experts support some of the White House's proposed reforms, the bigger picture is starting to worry them.   "Our policy team was pleasantly surprised by some of the changes," says Maria Flynn, president of the nonprofit research group Jobs for the Future. "But the overall funding levels and the lack of detail around any kind of consolidation or reorganization is troubling."   Nevertheless, there is a lot of agreement on how the federal government could help train people better for the jobs of the future. Here are the ideas getting the most attention.   1. Open Pell Grants to short-term certificates.   The federal government spends tens of billions annually on Pell Grants to help low-income students afford college, depending on how many apply. But only programs lasting more than 600 hours qualify, even though many valuable training and certification programs don't take that long to complete.   There's already bipartisan legislation pending in Congress that would open up Pell Grants to shorter-term programs that teach specific skills, and the idea is widely favored in policy circles.   However, there's concern that it would be difficult to ensure the quality of such programs, especially as new ones spring up to compete for federal student aid. That's part of what fueled some of the predatory practices at for-profit colleges that offered subpar educations and failed to help their graduates get jobs.   "If you're opening up Pell eligibility to a new class of programs, the quality piece is really important," says Angela Hanks, a workforce education specialist at the Center for American Progress. "And given how much the Administration has demonstrated that they're in favor of deregulation, I'm not sure that any kind of quality assurance is likely to be layered on top of this."   2. Tie funding more tightly to employer needs.    Another billion dollars a year in federal workforce spending comes through the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act, which funds career-focused training at high schools. The House has twice passed bills that would reauthorize the legislation with a greater emphasis on training for in-demand jobs and more flexibility for states, but they have stalled in the Senate.   The White House has urged passage of that legislation, with tweaks to promote more apprenticeships, work-based learning and dual enrollment with community college programs.   That came as welcome news to Chris Padilla, vice president of government and regulatory affairs at IBM, which has partnered with school districts in New York, Chicago and elsewhere to develop skills-focused high schools that allow students to earn an associate degree in a field that local employers need.   "We've long been urging that federal money should be redirected more towards the kind of jobs that are open today rather than the jobs of 50 years ago," Padilla said.   There are also proposals winding their way through Congress to bring higher education in line with the needs of local industry by funding training programs that are designed by businesses and community colleges with concrete job opportunities for those who enroll.   3. Make work-study jobs more relevant.   The United States spends about $1 billion a year on work-study, which allows college students to work off some of their tuition. But these jobs are usually menial and don't build skills or add to a resume. Also, the aid is concentrated among high tuition schools in the Northeast, because it's parceled out according to an historical funding formula.   A coalition of think tanks and business associations have recommended targeting the money toward students with higher needs and making sure it's aligned with their studies instead.   The Trump administration endorsed some of those recommendations, but it also proposed to cut funding for work-study by almost 80%.   4. Leverage infrastructure funding for worker training.    Both the Obama and Trump administrations have supported increasing the number of apprenticeships, which allow people to earn money while working and learning a skill.   Tamar Jacoby, who runs the conservative think tank Opportunity America, recommends using federal infrastructure funding to pay for 10 weeks of classroom training for each new worker a contractor hires.   "The infrastructure initiative is a great vehicle," Jacoby says. "Why don't we also use it to rebuild the workforce?"   She projects it would cost $1.8 billion over 10 years to train 600,000 people, which is a small fraction of the $200 billion the White House proposes spending on its plan.   5. Treat workforce training like research and development.    Businesses get a tax credit for the money they spend on product innovation, but not for investing in their employees' skills. And they've been doing less of it: Between 1996 and 2008, the percentage of workers receiving employer-sponsored training fell 42%, according to calculations by President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.   That's a problem given the ever-changing technology in industries ranging from health care to manufacturing. The Aspen Institute has proposed giving employers a tax credit for the money they spend on training, especially on lower-income workers.   Other countries and some U.S. states — like Connecticut, Kentucky, and Virginia — are already doing something similar, and Connecticut has found that participating firms got more productive. Three Democratic senators introduced a bill to that effect last fall, but it was not included in the tax reform package that ultimately passed.   6. Put more money into existing programs -- not less.    The Trump administration isn't the first to propose a reorganization of federal workforce development programs.   Congress already overhauled and consolidated many of them back in 2014 with the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, which provides grants to states to run their own training and pushed for more coordination across different federal agencies.   Funding for those state grants has already shrunk by 40% over the last 15 years, and the Trump administration proposed another 40% cut in its 2019 budget (although it later recommended adding back all the money after Congress passed its budget with spending increases). The conservative Heritage Foundation has favored cutting them entirely.   Kermit Kaleba, federal policy director at the National Skills Coalition, says funding gyrations and big policy shifts would jeopardize the effectiveness of the whole system.   "The number one thing the administration could do is make sure they're fully implementing Congress' vision around WIOA," Kaleba says. "We need to give the law a chance to work rather than come in four years later and say let's completely rearrange things yet again."  China will use Trump's tariffs to its advantage
President Trump's latest tough talking on trade has upset stock markets, angered US allies around the world and even drawn criticism from members of his own party. Whether it represents the start of a global trade war is likely to depend on the reaction from China, which Trump has repeatedly slammed for killing American jobs with its unfair trade practices.   The tariffs on US steel and aluminum imports that Trump announced Thursday are "definitely the start of more aggressive trade measures by the Trump administration to protect US industry from what it sees as predatory practices of others," said Scott Kennedy, an expert on the Chinese economy at the Center for Strategic & International Studies in Washington.   China could retaliate by imposing punishing measures of its own on major US exports such as soybeans or airplanes, according to analysts. Or it could put the squeeze on top American companies that do big business in its market, such as Apple (AAPL) and Intel (INTC).   But as the world's biggest exporter, China may choose to keep its response more muted to try to avoid a trade war, and claim the moral high ground as the defender of the global trading system.   "China does not want to see an escalation of tension," said Aidan Yao, senior emerging Asia economist at AXA Investment Managers. "Instead, Beijing wants to manage the relationship."   Beijing's response on Friday was measured in tone. A spokeswoman for China's Foreign Ministry urged the US "to abide by the multilateral trade rules and make contributions to the international trade and economic order."   But China has previously warned it could act tough. The Commerce Ministry said last month that it "will take necessary measures to defend our rights" if US tariffs on steel and aluminum hurt Chinese interests.   China sold roughly $4 billion of steel and aluminum to the US last year. But those amounts accounted for just a small portion of the country's wider exports.   "The actual direct commercial pain for China ... is not particularly large," Kennedy said.   Trump's next move   The bigger concern for China is whether Trump will soon come out with other measures that target it more heavily and directly. That could result from an investigation into Chinese efforts to get hold of US intellectual property that was launched last year by Trump's trade czar, Robert Lighthizer.   "Behind the scenes, the US administration appears to be preparing a more focused campaign directed against China," said Arthur Kroeber, a founding partner at economic research firm Gavekal.   If Trump comes down harder on Beijing by slapping tariffs on a broad range of China's exports and clamping down aggressively on Chinese investment in the US, President Xi Jinping will fire back, experts say.   But China could do so by inflicting pain on US companies while still playing by global trade rules.   "Retaliatory steps would be low key. China would challenge the US at the [World Trade Organization] and probably implement a few tit-for-tat anti-dumping ... measures of its own," analysts at Capital Economics wrote earlier this year.   "There would be reputational gains for China in casting itself as the guarantor of free trade in the face of US protectionism," the analysts said. "But there would be practical benefits too for the world's biggest exporter in preventing the global trading system from fragmenting further."   China could also use tactics it has previously deployed to express discontent with other countries' actions by making their companies suffer.   South Korea's decision last year to install a US missile defense system on its territory angered Beijing. It was followed by what were viewed as "unofficial sanctions" -- sudden regulatory clampdowns and consumer boycotts -- that did serious damage to the Chinese businesses of South Korean companies such as Hyundai (HYMTF) and Lotte.   China could also direct its massive airlines to shift their orders for new planes to Airbus (EADSF) rather than Boeing (BA).     Who's the bad guy?   Trump's argument that the steel and aluminum tariffs are justified on grounds of national security may have given Chinese leaders another avenue of attack.   "By using a national security justification for protection that obviously serves no real national security purpose, Trump opens the door for other countries -- notably China -- to use the same justification to protect their own industries," Kroeber wrote in a note to clients.   Trump's latest move also helps China deflect widespread criticism of its own trade practices, which include subsidizing key industries, dumping excess production of product such as steel on global markets and shutting out foreign companies and investors from huge swathes of its economy.   "Although Trump and his trade advisers consistently claim that China is the main villain in international trade, these tariffs make it far harder to organize resistance to Chinese bad behavior," Kroeber said.   The metal tariffs could end up doing most harm to US allies like South Korea, Japan, Germany, Taiwan and Brazil.   Most of those governments "would have been quite happy to join in US-led efforts to restrain Chinese mercantilism and fight for greater market access in that highly protected economy," Kroeber wrote. "Now they will be inclined to wonder whether it is really China or the US that poses the greater threat to the world trading system."   -- CNN's Tim Schwarz contributed to this article.   Europe could hit Harleys, bourbon and Levi's over Trump's tariffs
Europe is preparing to impose tariffs on Harley-Davidson (HOG) motorbikes, bourbon whiskey and Levi's jeans in retaliation for President Donald Trump's planned taxes on steel and aluminum imports. European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker identified the products as targets for "counter measures" the European Union has been preparing, a Commission spokesperson told CNN.   Trump said Thursday that he would impose a 25% tariff on steel imports and a 10% tariff on aluminum imports, a move that has been vociferously condemned by key US allies and trading partners.   The EU said earlier its response would be swift, firm and proportional.   Harley-Davidson declined to comment on the European Commission's decision Friday, but Levi issued is a statement voicing support for free trade.   "We support open markets and free trade where everyone plays by the rules; these measures will not only hurt American brands and workers but also have reverberations across the global economy," a company spokesperson said.   The justification for the tariffs - national security concerns -- also drew harsh criticism. German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel described the administration's reasoning as "incomprehensible."   "The EU must respond decisively to US punitive tariffs, which endangers thousands of jobs in Europe. There should be no doubt about that in Washington," Gabriel said.   Alexander Winterstein, a spokesman for the European Commission, told reporters the 28 countries of the EU would respond to the tariffs as a single bloc. The Commission will discuss its response next Wednesday.   The EU could also introduce "safeguard measures" if it suddenly sees a surge in steel imports. These measures could include tariffs or import quotas and can be enacted quickly, Winterstein said.   Another obvious move would be to file a complaint against the US with the World Trade Organization. Analysts at UBS said Europe would have a good chance of winning, but that could take 18 months.   "If the EU wins, it could impose more economic sanctions on the US," said Peter Holmes, a trade expert at the University of Sussex.   The WTO ruled against the US when the Bush administration introduced steel tariffs in 2002. The US then lifted those tariffs, under threat of sanctions on oranges from Florida and textiles from North Carolina.   US trading partners are worried about how Trump's new taxes will affect demand for their steel and aluminum exports. They're also concerned that steel that may have gone to the US will instead flood into their markets.   Some key US trading partners may be made exempt from the tariffs — but it's not clear which countries, if any, will be spared.   Affected countries aren't likely to take a big economic hit lying down.   "This is the opening salvo in a trade war. The countries we deal with are not going to sit there and take this," said Phil Levy, a senior fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.     Analysts say that China's response will be especially important.   Beijing could retaliate by imposing punishing measures of its own on major US exports such as soybeans or airplanes. Or it could put the squeeze on top American companies that do big business in China, such as Apple (AAPL) and Intel (INTC).   Trump will implement the tariffs under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act. To do that, he must claim that steel and aluminum imports hurt the country's national security.   Critics say that justification is a stretch, and makes a mockery of international trade rules.   "It is entirely inappropriate to view any trade with Canada as a national security threat to the United States," Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said in a statement.   Other US allies including South Korea and Australia also issued statements criticizing the tariffs.   The Trump administration has been considering tariffs on metals for months, giving other countries time to prepare their responses.   The EU is the second largest producer of steel in the world after China. The bloc produces around 170 million metric tonnes of steel a year, accounting for 10% of global output, according to the World Steel Association.   -- CNN's Alanna Petroff and Nadine Schmidt contributed reporting.   Why young Italian expats are 'scared' to go home
Francesca Sarti was fed up with Italy. The entrepreneur had grown frustrated with trying to grow her small design business in Florence, where red tape and government bureaucracy stood in her way.   So she packed up and moved. Five years later, the business is thriving -- in London.   "I was tired of Italy," said Sarti. "We have this ability to make everything complicated. Running my business in London is much easier and very straightforward."   Sarti, 37, is one thousands of young people who have left Italy in recent years for better opportunities abroad. Many say that Sunday's election won't fix the problems that drove them away.   Italy is inundated with economic problems: Young people struggle to find work, national debt is through the roof and banks are saddled with bad loans.     The weak economy and lack of opportunity have spurred over half a million young people between the ages of 18 and 29 to leave Italy since 2008, according to official data.   In 2015, the most recent year for which data is available, the number of departures jumped by 13% even as the country pulled out of a damaging triple-dip recession.   A study by the International and European Forum on Migration found that young Italians are fed up with being underemployed, underpaid and stuck in a society that emphasizes networks of relationships over competence.   Gianluca D'Angelo, 39, came to London nine years ago and is now a manager at Eaton Partners, a private equity fund.   He planned to return to Italy after the 2012 London Olympics, but said that moving back would mean giving up his title and pay. He said success at Italian finance firms is not based on performance.     "It's more a function of age as opposed to skills, it's more a function of who you know as opposed to what you know," said D'Angelo "That's really a big impediment."   D'Angelo said that Italy's bureaucracy creates an untenable environment for startups. He even opened a pizza restaurant with fellow expats in London, a project he said would have been a major hassle back home.   "There is a lack of clarity and a lack of vision in Italy," said D'Angelo.   Filippo Boeri, 30, is a PhD student at the London School of Economics. Originally from Milan, he said that Italy's public sector is bloated, and he would have to spend up to 15 years working in "a gray area" before becoming a professor.   "In most countries in Europe, these talents are recognized and they invest to attract these talents," said Boeri. "Italy doesn't invest in its own people, its young students, and doesn't spend the money to attract foreign talent."   Italy's economy is now growing at its fastest rate since 2010, but youth unemployment is still above 30%. The share of young people not working or not in school is the highest in the European Union.   The official statistics paint a bleak picture for photographer Stefano Broli.     He moved to London five years ago and said he would like to return to Rome to raise his newborn daughter, but worries about finding work. He runs the photo department for a London ad agency.   "I'm scared about going back to Italy," Broli said. "Now that I've achieved something here... I'm scared that it would never be the same."   Many of the expats surveyed by CNN said they have no plans to return -- no matter who wins the election.   "In the political debate I'm seeing, there hasn't been a focus on the real issues," said D'Angelo. "We need to be talking about how we create jobs, how we re-attract talent, how we motivate people, and how we build an easier, more meritocratic environment."  Silvio Berlusconi's comeback won't fix the Italian economy
He's back! Silvio Berlusconi, the controversial media tycoon and former prime minister of Italy, has emerged as a potential kingmaker in a crucial general election to be held Sunday.   Analysts have watched the resurrection of the self-described "Jesus Christ of politics" with trepidation. They worry that policies proposed by his coalition would blow the country's budget deficit wide open and damage its weak economy.   Berlusconi is not allowed to hold office because of a fraud conviction. But he could anoint the next prime minister if his alliance of center-right parties wins the largest share of the vote.   Once in power, his allies are promising to spend, spend, spend.   "[The] coalition has proposed a raft of sweeping policies that would cause a blowout in the budget deficit and possibly a significant shrinking of the workforce," said Jack Allen, an economist at Capital Economics.   Sound familiar? Berlusconi dominated Italian politics for decades, serving as prime minister between 2001 and 2006 and again from 2008 to 2011. He left office under the shadow of sex scandals and a debt crisis.   Productivity, incomes and living standards all stagnated under his watch.   "During the 2000s Italy recorded the lowest growth rate in the world," said Andrea Capussela, an independent economist. "It was a bad decade for just about everybody."   Berlusconi has convinced some voters that Italy's economic misery is not his fault. He blames unreliable coalition partners, the Italian elite and even an international conspiracy.   "A considerable portion of the Italian electorate believe that he wasn't able to do all he promised because he was not allowed to," said Fabio Bordignon, a political scientist at the University of Urbino.   Berlusconi resigned in late 2011 during Europe's debt crisis as fears mounted that investors could refuse to buy Italian government bonds, pushing the economy into default and wrecking the euro.   The governments that followed adopted reform measures designed to avoid another debt crisis. Unemployment went down and the national debt stabilized.   But the recovery has been slow, and many Italians have not felt its benefits.   "The consequences of the crisis are still strong, especially in terms of unemployment, and so it seems that the parties of the outgoing government are not going to capitalize on the improvement," Bordignon said.   Berlusconi and his allies present an alternative. He has pledged to cut taxes, raise pensions, increase infrastructure spending and boost welfare payments.   Nicola Nobile, an economist at Oxford Economics, said the policies amount to a sugar rush.   "If enacted, some of these measures would potentially double Italy's growth next year at the expense of a dramatic deterioration in the fiscal deficit," she said.   More debt would rattle investors, but that's not a concern shared by supporters of Berlusconi. Instead, they see him as a stable political force in a county that has had 64 governments in 70 years.  The global steel industry by the numbers
President Trump has announced a 25% tariff on imported steel, sending shock waves through markets. The move could spark a trade war with major implications for steelmakers and the economy.   Here's a look at the numbers behind the global steel industry:   1.7 billion metric tonnes   When it comes to steel production, one country is miles ahead of the pack: China.   It accounted for a whopping 49% of the 1.7 billion metric tonnes of steel produced globally last year, according to industry group Worldsteel.   The European Union, Japan, India and the United States round out the top five producers.     Steelmakers have in the past accused China of dumping steel on other markets, pushing down prices, forcing rivals out of business and killing thousands of jobs.   The US and EU had sought to level the playing field with targeted tariffs.   50%   What's all that steel used for?   Half of global steel production goes into buildings and infrastructure, which includes products such as beams and pipelines.   Some 16% of steel is used in mechanical equipment. Cars, shipping and rail transport also receive hefty allotments.     When it comes to consumption by country, China once again tops the rankings.   It's followed by the EU, the US, India, Japan and South Korea, according to Worldsteel.   $29 billion   The US is the world's top steel importer. The value of steel shipped into the US was just over $29 billion in 2017.   Nearly 17% of steel imported into the US comes from Canada, according to S&P Global Platts. South Korea, Mexico, Brazil and China are also major exporters to the US.   The new tariff could put those countries squarely in the firing line.   Ben May, a director at Oxford Economics, said that 88% of Canadian steel exports went to the US in 2016. The same is true for nearly three-quarters of Mexican steel.   China would be less affected because its trade with the US is already restricted by American import controls and duties.     The volume of US steel imports is not very consistent. In 2014 they were worth nearly $38 billion, but that figure declined to just over $22 billion in 2016.     2%   Steel and aluminum, which Trump has also targeted, account for about 2% of world trade, according to Capital Economics.   That may not seem like much. But other countries may respond with trade actions of their own.   "The direct impact on the global economy of the tariffs President Trump announced yesterday would be minimal. But the fact that they are being justified under a flimsy pretext of national security increases the risks of retaliation," said Andrew Kenningham, chief global economist at Capital Economics.   -- CNN's Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.  White House lauded US record with WTO, which Trump now calls a 'disaster'
President Donald Trump thinks the World Trade Organization and imports are a huge threat to America. "The WTO has been a disaster for this country," he said at the White House Thursday, when he unveiled plans to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. "It has been great for China and terrible for the United States."   But last month the White House put out a paper documenting the United States' winning record before the WTO, an international organization that helps countries settle their trade disputes.   The 562-page "Economic Report of the President," which was released last month, says the United States does better than other countries in cases before the WTO.   "The United States gets better outcomes via formal WTO adjudication than negotiation, increasing the probability that the complaint will be resolved and decreasing the time it takes to remove the barrier in question," said the report, citing academic research done last year.   The report also talks a lot about how trade and imports benefit the US economy, despite Trump's frequent criticism. "Historically," it said, "international trade as a whole has on net increased American productivity, standards of living and American economic growth." However it cautions that it "imposed costs on some Americans."   While Trump believes imposing tariffs is crucial to help the American economy, the report suggests the opposite path works better more often than not.   "Historically, the United States has exercised leadership in pursuit of a policy of lowered trade barriers and increased market access," said the report. "The gains from these actions have, as a whole, served to boost income in the US as well as around the world."   White House spokespeople did not immediately respond to a request for comment.  Venezuela hikes its minimum wage again -- to just over $6
Venezuelans earning the minimum wage got another pay raise Thursday. But in reality, they're making far less than they were a year ago. President Nicolas Maduro announced a 58% wage hike and an additional 67% increase in food subsidies. Together, Venezuelans earning the minimum wage will get 1,307,646 bolivars a month.   That's worth just $6.13 at current exchange rates.   Venezuela's repeated wage hikes haven't kept up with the country's runaway inflation. In January 2017, Maduro raised the monthly minimum wage 50% to 104,358 bolivars. At the time, that was worth $31.17, according to the unofficial exchange rate that millions of Venezuelans follow closely.   In other words, despite all the increases, the new minimum wage will be worth less than a fifth of what it was worth a year ago.   Corruption, mismanagement and price freezes have caused Venezuela's economy to collapse. To try to appease voters, Maduro has raised the minimum wage several times in the past few years. Critics say the hikes amount to printing money and only exacerbate Venezuela's hyperinflation.   The International Monetary Fund estimated in January that inflation in Venezuela could hit 13,000% this year. A year ago, one dollar was worth about 4,200 bolivars. Today, it's worth 213,200 bolivars.   Rampant price increases have resulted in extreme shortages of food, medicine and other essential items.   A recently published study found that 64% of Venezuelans lost weight last year because of food shortages.   The average loss per person was 25 pounds, up from almost 18 pounds in 2016, according to professors at the Central University of Venezuela.  'Trade wars are good?' Two words: Great. Depression.
President Donald Trump is itching for a trade war. No matter what you do for a living, that should scare you. In a trade war, countries impose tariffs and other barriers on imported products, often in retaliation for actions taken by a trading partner.   That can slow down business activity around the globe by crimping international trade. In a worst case scenario, trade wars can lead to a global depression. Protectionist trade polices are one of the primary factors economists cite for deepening the Great Depression.   So if there's one thing that most economists agree upon, it's no one wins a trade war.   But President Trump doesn't believe that. He tweeted out Friday morning that for the United States, a trade war is "good" and "easy to win."     Here's how US businesses and consumers stand to lose if President Trump gets his wish for a trade war:   Prices will go up   This much is certain. In a trade war, US consumers and businesses will be left with the bill.   President Trump says he's planning to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and a 10% tariff on imported aluminum. That means the price of cars, appliances, packaged food and everything else that uses steel or aluminum is bound to go up.   Even the aluminum industry's trade group admits the smelters remaining in this country cannot make enough additional aluminum to replace the supply coming from overseas. When the tariffs are put in place, imported products will continue to come in -- at higher prices.   Since foreign steel and aluminum prices will be higher, domestic producers are likely to raise their prices as well.   American businesses will lose sales   Yes, America buys more from other countries than it sells to its trading partners. But don't discount the amount of goods and services the United States does export -- $2.3 trillion worth.   A trade war by definition means that other countries are going to slap tariffs and restrictions on those US goods and services, making them more expensive, and less competitive -- if they're allowed into those countries at all.   And once an American business loses a contract to sell its products overseas, it can take a long time to win that business back. Their customers will find other, perhaps more dependable suppliers while the trade war is waged.   Many well-paying jobs are at risk in a trade war. In 2017, the United States exported $60 billion worth of auto parts, $56 billion of civilian aircraft, $52 billion of new cars and trucks, and $51 billion of pharmaceuticals.   That's only goods. The United States has been primarily a service economy for decades now. Today about five times as many jobs are in the service sector, such as finance, media, transportation and retail, than are in goods producing sectors, such as manufacturing and mining.   The good news is that the United States had a $243 billion services trade surplus.   American trading partners are also among its biggest lenders   The federal deficit is big and getting bigger. The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget estimates the deficit could swell to $1 trillion by next year.   Wall Street worries that the rising amount of debt could drive up the interest rates on the government debt, since the Treasury Department will have to offer higher rates to borrow more money. That would increase the cost of borrowing for consumers and businesses, since many types of loans -- including mortgages -- track government bond rates.   One thing keeping rates in check so far is the demand for US debt from overseas. America's foreign trading partners, including China, are among the largest buyers of that debt. It added $127 billion to its holdings last year and now owns more than $1 trillion in U.S. debt, making it the largest foreign holder of our debt.   The trade deficit that President Trump decries is one of the reasons for those holdings. It gives foreign countries a powerful incentive to buy that debt, since they have to do something with the dollars they get back on those sales.   If the trade gap shrinks, for whatever reason, China won't have as much incentive to buy US debt, and interest rates could rise significantly.  Wilbur Ross defends Trump tariffs with a can of Campbell's soup
Wilbur Ross thinks the outcry about steel and aluminum tariffs is "a lot to do about nothing." The Commerce Secretary said on CNBC Friday that any price increases related to the new tariffs would be very, very small, and held up a can of Campbell's Soup to make his point.   "In the can of Campbell's soup, there's about 2.6 cents — 2.6 pennies — worth of steel. So if that goes up by 25%, that's about six-tenths of one cent on the price of the can of Campbell's soup," he said.   Ross continued: "I just bought this can today at a 7-Eleven ... and the price was $1.99. So who in the world is going to be too bothered by six-tenths of a cent?"     After Ross' CNBC appearance, Campbell's expressed its opposition to the tariffs in a statement.   "Any new broad-based tariffs on imported tin plate steel — an insufficient amount of which is produced in the U.S. — will result in higher prices on one of the safest and more affordable parts of the food supply," a spokesperson said.   Ross also said the cost of cars would increase only marginally due to the steel tariffs.   "People talk about cars. There's about one ton of steel in a car, and the price of a ton of steel is $700 or so. So 25% on that would be [a] one half of 1% price increase, on a typical $35,000 car," he said. "So it's no big deal."   Trump said on Thursday that his administration will impose a 25% tariff on steel imports and a 10% tariff on aluminum imports as early as next week, in order to prop up domestic manufacturers.   Since then, a number of top U.S. allies and trading partners have threatened to retaliate against the United States if the tariffs are enacted and they are not exempt. The European Union, Canada and Australia all denounced the new duties following Trump's announcement.   The tariffs have to be "broad" and "global in reach," Ross said, in order to solve the problem at hand, in which excess steel is dumped into the global market, hurting prices.   Ross — himself a billionaire who made his fortune buying up distressed assets in steel and coal — went on to say that "retaliation is not as simple as the people who are crying that the sky has fallen."   "Take a typical crop, soybeans," he said. " ... The only reason China or anyone else buys soybeans from us is that it's the cheapest price that they can get. So the first thing is, if they were to cut back on some agricultural products, it would cost their economies more."   He added: "They will have trouble finding a substitute."   American jobs are being hurt by the nation's growing trade deficit, Ross said, and we have to do something about that.   "This is scare tactics by the people who want the status quo," he said. "The people who have given away jobs in this country."  The Obamacare tax penalty isn't dead yet
Rick, Patrick and Michael recently commented on Covered California's Facebook page, urging others to ditch health insurance because: "No more fines or penalties!!! Trump took care of that!! Saved me 700 bucks this year!!!"   "Trump removed the penalty for not having insurance."   "I'm pretty sure Trump abolished the illegal penalty."   They're right — and wrong.   On Dec. 22, President Donald Trump did indeed sign a sweeping tax bill that repeals the Affordable Care Act's tax penalty by zeroing out the fines.   Opponents of the tax penalty rejoiced, and many, like Rick, Patrick and Michael, assumed it took effect immediately.   Not so. The penalty won't go away until 2019, and that means you still will owe Uncle Sam if you didn't have health insurance — or an exemption from the mandate — in 2017. The same holds true for this year.   "There's just mass confusion out there," reports Steven Stasoiski, a tax accountant and insurance agent in Seal Beach, California.   Some of his clients decided to drop their health insurance this year without consulting him first, thinking they wouldn't have to pay a penalty next year. "When they file next season ... they're going to be surprised," he says.   One client, a family of four in Orange County, California, decided to go without insurance this year, and will owe about $15,200 next year because of it — roughly the same cost as a bronze-level health insurance plan that would protect them from catastrophic health insurance bills, Stasoiski says.   Under Obamacare, most people must have health insurance or pay a tax penalty. For 2017, the penalty is $695 per adult (up to a family maximum of $2,085), or 2.5% of household income, whichever is greater. The penalty for children is half the adult rate ($347.50).   You can avoid the penalty if you qualify for one of the health law's several exemptions. For instance, you may be exempt if you were uninsured for less than three consecutive months of the previous year, if your income is low enough that you're not required to file a federal tax return or if you belong to a health care sharing ministry.   But if you don't fit into one of the exemption categories and you were uninsured in 2017, or will be in 2018, you're probably out of luck, says Alison Flores, a principal tax research analyst at the Tax Institute, the research wing of H&R Block, based in Kansas City, Missouri.   "If you have a penalty and you're due a refund, that penalty reduces your refund," she says. If you owe a penalty but aren't owed a refund, and then you decide not to pay the penalty, the Internal Revenue Service may take it out of a future refund, she says.   The IRS says that this year, for the first time, it will reject electronically filed tax returns that don't address Obamacare tax penalty questions. If you file a paper return and don't address those questions, your return could be held up and a refund delayed, adds Michael Eisenberg, a certified public accountant with Squar Milner in Encino, Calif.   "They are saying, 'This is the law, and you have to comply with the law while it's the law,'" he says. "They are going to enforce the penalties."   A quick note on the Obamacare-related 1095 tax forms, which will help you prove to the IRS that you had health insurance last year.   Some of you who got insurance last year from employers, on the open market or through government programs such as Medicare or Medi-Cal, may still be waiting for your 1095-B and 1095-C forms. The IRS extended the deadline to March 2 for those forms to be delivered to taxpayers.   But you don't need them in hand to complete your taxes, which are due on April 17 this year. "You should have other substantiation that you had health insurance," such as W-2 forms, Medicare cards or explanations of benefits from your insurance company, Flores says.   On the other hand, you must have a correct 1095-A to complete your taxes. If you're a Covered California enrollee — or buy your insurance through any state or federally run health insurance exchange — you should have received your 1095-A forms by Jan. 31.   If you're still waiting for yours and you're a resident of the Golden State, log on to your Covered California account and check your inbox. You should find a copy of your 1095-A there, says agency spokesman James Scullary.   If that still doesn't help, or if your 1095-A form is incorrect, fill out a dispute form, which you can find under the "Members" tab of the Covered California website at www.coveredca.com.   As always, when it comes to Obamacare and taxes seek the aid of a tax professional.   If you can't afford it, multiple programs offer free tax help, including the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program, run by the IRS and the AARP Foundation Tax-Aide program.   This story was produced by Kaiser Health News, which publishes California Healthline, a service of the California Health Care Foundation.  What is a trade war? And all your other questions, answered
President Trump's announcement of steep steel and aluminum tariffs has triggered international fears about a trade war. So just what is a trade war, and what exactly would it entail?   In a tweet on Friday, Trump said that "when a country (USA) is losing many billions of dollars on trade with virtually every country it does business with, trade wars are good, and easy to win."   But it's not that simple. Here's what you need to know about the situation at hand.  When a country (USA) is losing many billions of dollars on trade with virtually every country it does business with, trade wars are good, and easy to win. Example, when we are down $100 billion with a certain country and they get cute, don't trade anymore-we win big. It's easy!    What is a trade war, anyway?   A trade war is one potential result of protectionism. It describes a situation in which countries retaliate against a country that imposes trade barriers such as tariffs and quotas. This could kick off a string of tit-for-tat responses that escalate global tensions.   Why is everyone talking about a trade war?   On Thursday, President Trump said that his administration will impose a 25% tariff on steel imports and a 10% tariff on aluminum imports as early as next week. That's a big deal, considering the United States is the world's biggest steel importer.   It's not yet clear if the president intends to exempt allies like Canada and the European Union. But countries are already warning that they'll slap retaliatory tariffs on US exports if they're affected.   What are tariffs?   A tariff is a tax or duty that the government places on a class of imported goods (tariffs on exports are very rare). In theory, this make the foreign products more expensive, and therefore less desirable to consumers — boosting domestic makers of the product, which don't have to pay the tax. The tariff is collected by customs officials and goes to the government.   Why does the United States want to put tariffs on steel and aluminum?   The goal is to protect domestic industry by propping up American steel and aluminum manufacturers. The hope is that as steel and aluminum from other countries gets more expensive due to the new taxes, more businesses will turn to American steel and aluminum makers to fill demand. Theoretically, that would breathe new life into industries that have been struggling for years.   Will these tariffs actually help American manufacturers?   Yes and no. American steel and aluminum manufacturers would certainly get a boost, but it's not clear that they actually have the capacity to meet a huge surge in demand.   Other sectors of American manufacturing would be hurt by rising steel and aluminum prices. The tariffs would raise the cost of raw materials for automakers like Ford (F) and General Motors (GM), as well as Boeing (BA). That could be bad for jobs in factories owned by those companies.   Will the tariffs cause prices go up?   The cost of products like beer, baseball bats and cars could go up due to the tariffs, if the companies that make these products decide to pass the increased cost of steel and aluminum on to consumers.   Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross has insisted that any related price increases would be very, very small. He said on Friday that the price of a can of Campbell's soup would go up only six-tenths of one cent.   Why don't other countries like these tariffs?   First and foremost, they care about the negative impact they'll have on their domestic steel and aluminum industries, hurting sales and jobs.   "An imposition of a tariff like this will do nothing other than distort trade, and ultimately ... will lead to a loss of jobs," Australia's trade minister said in a statement.   Other countries are also worried about the mechanism the United States is using the impose the tariffs. Trump intends use a little-known trade law to claim that steel and aluminum imports are a threat to national security. Critics claim that undermines the rules of the World Trade Organization, and will ultimately disrupt the whole global trading system.   How will they respond?   Many affected countries have been very clear that if they're hit with tariffs, they intend to hit back.   The European Union, for example, is ready to impose tariffs on Harley-Davidson (HOG) motorcycles, bourbon whiskey and Levi's jeans as retaliation.   What does China have to do with all this?   A lot. In the past, the president's rhetoric on steel has targeted China, the world's largest steel exporter. He's laid into China for sending cheap, excess steel into the global market, which he says makes it impossible for American steel companies to compete.   Whether a trade war will erupt now depends in large part on China's reaction. So far, it's been muted. But China has threatened to be tough in response to steel and aluminum tariffs in the past. There are a number of US industries against which China could retaliate, if it chooses to do so.   The Trump administration is also investigating intellectual property theft by China. The outcome of that probe could play into Beijing's response.   Which US industries could be hit with tariffs from other countries?   US agricultural exports like soybeans are thought to be particularly vulnerable. Other nations could also choose to buy planes from Airbus instead of Boeing.   If China retaliates, it could focus on consumer electronics — which would hurt Apple (AAPL) — or semiconductors, which would harm US chipmakers like Qualcomm (QCOM) and Intel (INTC).   What's happening with the stock market?   News of Trump's tariffs decision immediately spooked stocks. The Dow closed down 420 points on Thursday. Shares of Boeing fell 3%, General Motors dropped 4% and Ford stumbled 3% — while U.S. Steel (X) soared 6% and Century Aluminum (CENX) spiked 7%.   The Dow fell as much as 391 points on Friday, but it recouped most of those losses and finished down only 71 points.   What happens next?   Trump's announcement on Thursday was offhand and short on details — so a lot is still up in the air.   Much hinges on whether Trump decides to institute across-the-board tariffs, or whether he hands out exemptions to select allies and trading partners.   As of Friday, the president had not indicated which way he was leaning.   "We must protect our country and our workers," he tweeted. "Our steel industry is in bad shape. IF YOU DON'T HAVE STEEL, YOU DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY!"  Trump is ready to fight a trade war with Europe, takes aim at car imports
President Donald Trump escalated threats of a trade war on Saturday, saying he would slap a new tax on European cars if the EU retaliated against his proposed steel and aluminum tariffs. Trump on Thursday called for tariffs of 25% on steel imports and 10% on aluminum products, a move he said would bolster those industries domestically.   The announcement was met with strong criticism by international trading partners who said Trump's plan could spark a trade war. European Union officials said they would retaliate with new tariffs on U.S. goods, including Harley-Davidson motorbikes, bourbon whiskey and Levi's jeans.   Trump fired back in a tweet Saturday.   "If the E.U. wants to further increase their already massive tariffs and barriers on U.S. companies doing business there, we will simply apply a Tax on their Cars which freely pour into the U.S.," he wrote. "They make it impossible for our cars (and more) to sell there."   The U.S. imported more than 1.2 million European cars from brands like BMW and Volkswagen in 2016, the most recent year for which data is available, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers Association.  The United States has an $800 Billion Dollar Yearly Trade Deficit because of our "very stupid" trade deals and policies. Our jobs and wealth are being given to other countries that have taken advantage of us for years. They laugh at what fools our leaders have been. No more!  Trump's surprise vow to impose a new steel tariff rocked global markets. Economists have warned the tariffs could put U.S. jobs and industries at risk.   Trump stoked further fears of international turmoil on Friday by claiming "trade wars are good" and "easy to win."   Supporting Trump's move, however, was his commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross. Ross claimed in an interview with CNN that concerns about the tariff's affect on the U.S. economy are "rubbish." He added that if price hikes trickle down to American consumers, they would not be significant.   Trump also fired off a tweet Saturday saying "very stupid" trade deals are holding America back.   "The United States has an $800 Billion Dollar Yearly Trade Deficit because of our 'very stupid' trade deals and policies," he said. "Our jobs and wealth are being given to other countries that have taken advantage of us for years. They laugh at what fools our leaders have been. No more!"   -- CNN's Stephen Collinson contributed to this report.  China expects its huge economy to grow more slowly this year
China is predicting a slowdown in growth in 2018. The Chinese government on Monday announced an economic growth target of 6.5%. That's several notches below the 6.9% rate at which the world's second largest economy expanded last year, according to official figures.   The government's target for this year is in line with economists' forecasts. It was unveiled at the start of the National People's Congress, an annual gathering of Chinese lawmakers in Beijing.   Growth is expected to cool this year as the Chinese government ramps up efforts to cut risk in its financial system and close down inefficient, polluting factories.   Beijing actually gave a similar target for 2017 -- saying a year ago that it was aiming for growth "around 6.5% or higher if possible." It ended up comfortably beating the goal.   Many experts have questioned the accuracy of the government figures and the relevance of the growth target. Some economists use a range of other information sources -- like electricity output and freight shipments -- to generate independent estimates of how the Chinese economy is performing. Those gauges often don't tally with China's official data.   But the government growth goal sends a message.   "The fact that a target continues to be set signals to all -- including to officials -- that rapid growth remains a priority," analysts at research firm Capital Economics said in note to clients.   Reining in spending   The economic growth target announced Monday is part of a broader "work report" delivered each year by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang in which he provides other details about the government's plans and expectations for the country's huge economy.   The central government intends to shrink its budget deficit to 2.6% of GDP from 3% in 2017 -- the first time it has cut this ratio in more than five years.   Since China plans to cut taxes this year, it will almost certainly have to achieve its budget deficit goal through reduced spending, according to the Capital Economics analysts.   The belt-tightening is likely to weigh on the wider economy. More restrained spending by the government "is one reason we have been expecting growth to slow this year," the analysts said.   After years of spurring breakneck growth through heavy investment in roads, railways and other infrastructure, China appears to be trying to tread more carefully.   "The old ways of boosting local GDP by building inefficient projects have passed," said Iris Pang, an economist at investment bank ING.   Beijing isn't dialing down the amount of money that goes to the military, though. Defense spending is forecast to rise 8.1% in 2018, faster than the 7% increase last year, according to a budget document released Monday.     Rising trade tensions   The gathering of top Chinese leaders this week takes place against a backdrop of rising tensions over global trade. Last week, President Trump announced plans to impose tariffs of 25% on steel imports and 10% on aluminum imports, a move some experts fear could lead to a global trade war.   "The direct impact on China is negligible, but investors are concerned that it could be the beginning of a broad trade war," said Larry Hu, chief China economist at investment bank Macquarie.   Major trading partners, including the European Union, have threatened to retaliate against US products they import if Trump goes ahead with the tariffs.   Beijing has so far given a cautious response to Trump's announcement.   China "does not want a trade war with the United States" but will "not sit idly by and watch China's interests being harmed," a senior Chinese official told reporters in Beijing on Sunday.   Zhang Yesui, a vice minister of foreign affairs, reiterated the Chinese government's view that "the common interests of both sides are far greater than their differences."   -- Nanlin Fang, Steven Jiang and Yuli Yang contributed to this report.   Here's what corporate America is saying about Trump's tariffs
American steel and aluminum manufacturers are applauding President Donald Trump's plan to slap tariffs on imported metals. Pretty much everyone else is not happy. Trump made the surprise announcement on Thursday: He wants a 25% tariff on imported steel and a 10% tariff for aluminum.   His goal is to bolster US production of the metals and combat unfair trade practices with the tariffs, which are taxes the government can place on imported goods.   But international competition is a big reason why aluminum and steel are cheap.   So while US steel and aluminum suppliers welcome less competition, companies that rely on the materials are warning that prices on everything from beer to cars will go up -- and jobs in a multitude of industries will be at risk.   Jim McGreevy, CEO of The Beer Institute, said a tariff on aluminum would cost the beverage industry millions and lead to thousands of layoffs.   "According to third-party analyses, this 10% tariff will create a new $347.7 million tax on America's beverage industry, including brewers and beer importers, and result in the loss of 20,291 American jobs," McGreevy said in a statement.   Ball Corporation, a top supplier of metal packaging, urged Trump to reconsider.   "Aluminum can sheet and tinplate steel have no national security applications, and tariffs on them likely will have negative downstream impacts on food and beverage manufacturers, as well as increased prices for consumers," CEO John Hayes said.   Even Hershey, which uses aluminum foil to wrap its chocolate Kisses and steel to build plants, said the policy could "have a negative impact on the entire U.S. economy."   And The American Chemistry Council -- which represents companies like 3M (MMM), Procter & Gamble (PG), DuPont (DWDP) and ExxonMobil (XOM) -- warned the tariffs could make factories more expensive, slow innovation, and have "punishing" effects.   Car buyers could see prices go up "substantially," according to the American International Automobile Dealers Association, which was formed to advocate for free trade. The group also warned that retaliatory tariffs from other countries stand to burden American consumers by driving up the price of goods in general.   Officials across the pond have already threatened to implement such retaliatory tariffs on American-made denim, motorcycles, and bourbon. Many believe the tariffs could spark a trade war, with other countries applying their own, onerous tariffs on American exports.   But Trump is undeterred. He went so far as to declare that trade wars are "good" and "easy to win," and said he'd hit Europe back with tariffs on imported cars from companies like BMW and Volkswagen.   White House trade adviser Peter Navarro told CNN's Jake Tapper that he expects President Donald Trump to sign a measures by the end of this week or early in the next.  Despite DACA uncertainty, Dreamers still determined to go to college 
Even though the fate of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program remains uncertain, it has not deterred young Dreamers from pursuing scholarships to colleges in the United States. "In the last few months, we have seen a sharp uptick in the number of applications for our college scholarships. It's even surprised me," said Candy Marshall, president of TheDream.US, a nationwide scholarship fund that helps DACA status immigrants attend one of 75 colleges in 15 states.   Marshall said Dreamers with DACA protection seem more resolved than ever to pursue a college education.   "We feared this climate of uncertainty might have a chilling effect, but it's been the opposite," she said.   DACA has enabled nearly 689,000 young immigrants who were brought to the United States as children to come out from the shadows and openly attend school, get work permits and driver's licenses without the fear of being deported.   President Trump announced the end of the DACA program last fall, giving Congress a March 5 deadline to come up with an alternate solution. But that deadline became moot after two separate district courts ruled that the administration must keep accepting renewal applications for the program, effectively putting the termination temporarily on hold.   Because DACA doesn't give Dreamers legal permanent status, or a path to citizenship, they aren't eligible for federal student aid. Therefore, many either self-fund their educations or rely on private donors and scholarships.   TheDream.US is the largest scholarship fund of its kind in the nation. It fully funds the college education of 800 to 1,000 DACA scholars each year.   TheDream.US said 11,655 applications have been started for the 2018-2019 academic year and nearly 4,000 have been completed and submitted.   "This is a record number," said Marshall.   She said some applications don't get fully completed because applicants realize the participating schools are too far away to commute to or they don't qualify for in-state tuition.   Amazon (AMZN) founder Jezz Bezos and his wife MacKenzie donated $33 million to the fund in January. Other notable donors include the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Pierre and Pam Omidyar, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, and the Coca-Cola Foundation.   Since it first launched in 2013, the organization has given out $103 million in scholarships to Dreamers who attend its partner colleges, including Arizona State University, The City University of New York, Colorado State University, and Phoenix College.     Southern New Hampshire University recently partnered with TheDream.US to launch a $20 million fund that will grant scholarships to 1,000 DACA recipients nationwide over the next five years.   The program, which offers both associate and bachelor's degrees, enables students to do much of their course and project work online and offers personalized coaching, advising, and other resources.   CNNMoney spoke with the first recipient of Southern New Hampshire's scholarship.   "I've always wanted to go to college. I want to become a nurse and take care of children," said the 17-year-old high school senior, who asked CNNMoney to remain anonymous "I babysit for two families and I love kids."   She hopes to pursue an associate's degree first and then a bachelor's degree in nursing.     Her parents brought her to America from Brazil when she was three years old and they remain undocumented. "The main reason my parents brought me to America was to give me a better life. If I have to work 10 times harder to prove that I earned this scholarship, I will," she said.   However, she said she worries about her ability to remain in the U.S. after her DACA status expires in August. If the court ruling stays in place until then, she might be able to renew her status for another two years.     "Dreamers are being used as a political football. But we are ready to place our bet on these Dreamers and invest in their future," said Paul LeBlanc, president of the private, non-profit university based in Manchester, New Hampshire.   LeBlanc said the online learning model is particularly well-suited for Dreamers, many of whom have to work full-time to make ends' meet or take care of parents and siblings. The university currently has about 100,000 students enrolled, with most in full online programs.   In the event a student is unable to remain in the country, LeBlanc said the university would help the student continue the program from wherever they are located.   "As an institution of higher education, we are in the business of hope. We have hundreds of thousands of [these] young people who have known no country, but the U.S.," said LeBlanc. "Among them might be the next brilliant scientist, general, community leader, inventor, or entrepreneur. We must give them the tools to realize their potential. We cannot squander this talent."  Thousands of Arkansas Medicaid recipients must start working in June
Tens of thousands of low-income Arkansas residents will have to start working in June if they want to keep their Medicaid benefits. The state received approval from the Trump administration Monday to impose work requirements on certain non-elderly, non-disabled beneficiaries who don't have dependent children at home. It joins Kentucky and Indiana in being granted such a waiver, but Arkansas plans to put the requirement into effect earlier than the other states.   The administration, however, is still reviewing a more controversial provision in the Arkansas waiver. The state wants to scale back Medicaid expansion to cover only adults earning up to 100% of the poverty level, or roughly $12,000, while still receiving the enhanced match from the federal government.   Under Obamacare, states that expand Medicaid agree to open the program to those earning up to 138% of the poverty level. The federal government covers at least 90% of the costs.   Arkansas will roll out the work requirement in stages. This year, only enrollees age 30 to 49 will be subject to the work mandate, which will be broadened to include 19- to 29-year-olds in 2019.   Up to 39,000 recipients could be affected this year, according to Arkansas' Department of Human Services.   The approvals mark the first time ever that states have been allowed to mandate Medicaid enrollees to work in exchange for benefits. At least eight other states have filed similar waivers and another nine are exploring the issue, said Seema Verma, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.   The Trump administration and Republican officials are positioning work requirements as an opportunity to improve Medicaid recipients' health and financial independence.   "This is not about punishing anyone," said Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson, a Republican. "It's about giving people an opportunity to work. It's to give them the training that they need. It's to help them move out of poverty and up the economic ladder,"   Consumer advocates, however, say such measures will leave many more Americans uninsured. Already, three groups are suing the administration seeking to stop the approvals.  China's global trade plan is piling huge debt on smaller nations
Big loans from China can come with big headaches. A new report says China's massive plan to pump hundreds of billions of dollars into ports, rail lines and other projects across Asia, Europe and Africa could pile debt problems onto smaller countries.   Loans from China's Belt and Road Initiative "will significantly add to the risk of debt distress" for eight countries, including Pakistan, Montenegro and Djibouti, according to a report published Sunday by the Center for Global Development, a US-based nonprofit think tank.   "Belt and Road provides something that countries desperately want -- financing for infrastructure. But when it comes to this type of lending, there can be too much of a good thing," John Hurley, a visiting fellow at the center and coauthor of the study, said in a statement.   Pakistan is "by far the largest country at high risk," the center says. Its report estimates China is financing about $50 billion worth of infrastructure and energy projects in Pakistan.   "Adding to Pakistan's risk of debt distress are the relatively high interest rates being charged by China," it warned.   The authors also attempted to estimate the growing indebtedness to China of the other seven countries, although they caution that China doesn't report its foreign lending "in a systematic or transparent manner."   In Djibouti, 82% of the country's external debt was owned by China at the end of 2016, according to the report.   In Kyrgyzstan, the authors estimate China's share of the country's debt could spike from 37% at the end of 2016 to 71% in the coming years, based on the Belt and Road projects it has in the pipeline.     The other nations singled out by the report as vulnerable are Laos, the Maldives, Mongolia and Tajikistan.   If any of them run into problems managing their debts, one concern is that China will be in a strong position to influence their strategic decisions or even gain control of important infrastructure.   In 2011, China reportedly agreed to write off debt in Tajikistan in exchange for disputed territory, according to the study. Last year, Beijing worked out an agreement with Sri Lanka over an $8 billion loan, securing a 99-year lease for a newly built port.   China deals with lending problems on a case by case basis rather than following widely accepted "rules of the road" set out by the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank, according to the report.   Instead of spurring growth and economic opportunity, China could be pushing a project that "introduces new debt vulnerabilities in developing countries and risks growth setbacks," the authors wrote.   They suggest other countries and organizations like the World Bank should encourage China to embrace more sustainable lending practices and avoid the dangers of acting as a "go-it-alone" creditor.  Why Italy won't get the universal income it was promised
The populist party that scooped up the most votes in Italy's election made a bold campaign promise: a guaranteed income of €780 ($960) a month for everyone. The anti-establishment Five Star Movement (M5S) on Monday described the election result as a "triumph."   But its most eye-catching policy is highly unlikely to happen.   Here's why.   1. There's no majority    M5S attracted voters fed up with Italy's weak economic recovery, and it dominated in the south of the country, receiving almost one in two votes in a region where youth unemployment is very high.   After Sunday's vote, the movement is on track to become the biggest party in parliament with about 32% of the vote. That's more than predicted but not enough for it to govern on its own.   It promised to top up the incomes of the poor, unemployed and pensioners by increasing taxes on banks and insurance companies, cutting the pensions of the rich and slashing military spending.   Universal basic income, which guarantees a minimum level of earnings to everyone in society, has never been rolled out on a national basis.   M5S wasn't alone in pushing the idea. Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia made a similar -- but even more generous -- promise of a basic "dignity income" of €1,000 ($1,230) a month later in the campaign.   But economists are skeptical the promises could ever turn into a real policy after what are likely to be lengthy negotiations to form a coalition government.   "My best guess is that they won't be able to push it through," said Jack Allen, European economist at Capital Economics.   Even if M5S and Forza Italia join forces they probably wouldn't have enough seats to pass such a radical policy.   They "may well have promised a universal income in the knowledge that, in all likelihood, there would never be enough support to implement it," Allen added.   2. Italy can't afford it   Even if M5S managed to assemble enough votes in parliament, Italy's massive government debt makes such an expensive policy unrealistic.   "They just don't have the money for it," said Carsten Hesse, European economist at Berenberg. Italy is already running a budget deficit of 2% of GDP. Under European Union rules, the deficit must not exceed 3%.   M5S said its basic income would cost €15 billion ($18.5 billion) a year. Oxford Economics estimates the cost at €29 billion ($35.7 billion), equivalent to roughly 1.7% of Italian GDP. Former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi pegged it as high as €84 billion ($103 billion).   Megan Greene, chief economist at Manulife Asset Management, said there would be "immense pressure" on the new government not to implement the plan.   "If they go ahead with this, there is no way they would be able to stick with the fiscal targets ... and while [the EU] might give them some leniency, it is unlikely that they would tolerate this," she added.   Universal basic income isn't a new concept. Finland has been experimenting with the idea, while the Canadian province of Ontario launched its own pilot last April. Swiss voters rejected a similar idea in a referendum in 2016.   "These are very successful economies with very low unemployment, solid GDP and small budget deficits," said Hesse. "It might make sense for them ... and they can afford it, but in Italy, it's not the case."   Investors are also likely to be concerned about any increase in the budget deficit, because that would add to Italy's debt, which already stands at 120% of GDP. That's the second highest rate in Europe, after Greece.   Manulife's Greene said investors would likely demand a higher rate of interest in return for buying Italian government debt, and that would push up the country's borrowing costs.   "The Five Star Movement might find governing a lot more difficult than making big promises from the sidelines, much like other populist parties have found before," she added.  Larry Summers: Trump's tariffs are 'crazy, dumb' economic policy
Larry Summers has opposed President Donald Trump on policy before. But he says the president's proposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports are something else entirely.   "This is really crazy, dumb protectionism," Summers told CNN's Christiane Amanpour in an interview on Monday.   Summers, a Democrat who led the Treasury Department under President Clinton and served as one of President Obama's top economic advisers, called the tariffs the "most irrational economic policy that any president has introduced in the last half century."   On Thursday, Trump said his administration will impose a 25% tariff on steel imports and a 10% tariff on aluminum imports as soon as this week, using a national security justification. It's not yet clear if there will be an exemption for US allies and trading partners like Canada, Mexico and the European Union.   "Our country, on trade, has been ripped off by virtually every country in the world, whether it's friend or enemy," Trump told reporters on Monday.   Summers said this strategy could have major economic consequences.   "There's real risks that this is going to set off a cycle of escalation and response that could usher in a new major stretch of protectionism," he said.  "In a moment when the global economy seemed like it was coming into the groove, this could be enough to knock it off and out of that groove."   Summers also questioned why the US would want to penalize its allies in the name of national security.   "The damage that is going to be done to our Canadian allies, our European allies [and] our Brazilian allies is going to do much more to hurt our national security," he said.   Summers criticized the notion that the tariffs would dramatically hurt China, which Trump has singled out as the enemy of US steel production in the past.   He said that the tariffs would be a "pinprick" to China because "their exports go to places other than the United States." Indeed, China only ranks as the 11th largest importer of steel to the U.S., well behind Canada and Mexico, according to a Department of Commerce report from December 2017.   "There's a case for more aggressive trade policies with respect to China, but that is not what this is," Summers said. "This a hurt-our-allies-first policy."   Summers said that while he has come out against the Trump administration on numerous issues before, the proposed tariffs are beyond the pale.   "There are other policies that the administration has proposed that I strongly opposed — the tax cuts, for example," he said. "But those tax cuts ... quite likely would have been legislated by a different Republican administration."   He continued: "I cannot imagine any administration, other than this one, that would have engaged in these tariff policies."  Trump's NAFTA negotiator: 'Time is running very short'
President Trump's top trade negotiator sent Mexico and Canada another warning on Monday: We're running out of time. Round 7 of the NAFTA talks concluded in Mexico City with grim comments by US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. He said the United States is prepared to walk away from the three-way negotiation and seek separate deals with Mexico or Canada.   Everyone better act fast, he warned.   "Now our time is running very short," Lighthizer said at a press conference, standing next to his counterparts from Mexico and Canada. "I fear that the longer we proceed, the more political headwinds we will feel."   Lighthizer alluded to political events that he said will complicate negotiations. Mexico has a presidential election in July, and the campaign — and the rhetoric that comes with it — kicks off in a few weeks. Canada has provincial elections later this year, and the US midterms are in November.   All these events stand in the way of a final agreement and could prolong negotiations, Lighthizer argued.   Lighthizer's remarks seemed to be another attempt by the United States to pressure Canada and Mexico into a deal. Earlier Monday, Trump himself said on Twitter that he would exempt the two countries from steel and aluminum tariffs only if they agreed to a NAFTA deal soon.  We have large trade deficits with Mexico and Canada. NAFTA, which is under renegotiation right now, has been a bad deal for U.S.A. Massive relocation of companies & jobs. Tariffs on Steel and Aluminum will only come off if new & fair NAFTA agreement is signed. Also, Canada must..    Neither Canada nor Mexico signaled it would change course. Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland, despite expressing optimism about progress in the talks, reiterated that Canada would retaliate against the United States if Trump applied tariffs on Canada.   In a call with Trump on Monday, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau "emphasized that the introduction of tariffs would not be helpful to reaching a deal on NAFTA," according to a statement from Trudeau's office.   Mexican Economy Secretary Ildefonso Guajardo also spoke optimistically Monday about an improving pace of progress in the NAFTA talks. But he told CNN last week that tariffs would have "tremendous consequences" for the US-Mexico trade relationship.   Lighthizer expressed disappointment that only six of the 30 chapters in NAFTA had been agreed upon after seven months of negotiations.   In Lighthizer's view, negotiators have made only minimal progress on the most divisive issue, auto manufacturing. Freeland said the conversation around auto production rules "has been constructive."   Round 8 of talks is expected to be held in Washington in April.   - Paula Newton contributed to this report  A Trump trade war would hit red states hard
President Trump's tariffs — and the trade war they could start — may hurt the very states that sent him to the White House. Car plants from Michigan to South Carolina could pay more for the steel used to make engines and auto parts. Retaliatory action by the European Union could hurt bourbon distilleries in Kentucky and Harley-Davidson factory workers in Wisconsin.   Farmers across the Midwest would be a prime target for China, the biggest buyer of some American crops.   "Coming from an agriculture state that supported Trump, it's certainly a disappointing development for Montana and the rest of rural America," says Herb Karst, a grain farmer in Billings, Montana, and a representative of Farmers for Free Trade, an advocacy group.   "It just seems that agriculture is going to be paying the price for the protection of the steel and aluminum industries," he said.   Trump said last week that he plans to impose a 25% tariff, or tax, on imported steel, and a 10% tariff on imported aluminum.   American manufacturers buy a lot of that imported steel and aluminum to make products including cars, kitchen appliances, baseball bats and medical equipment. Tariffs would raise their costs. Companies typically pass those costs on to their customers, which can cool sales and lead to job cuts.   The top five states that depend the most on manufacturing, based on employment, all voted for Trump in 2016: Alabama, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan and Wisconsin.   Some of these states also employ workers in the steel and aluminum industries. They could benefit from tariffs because their companies would face less foreign competition. And it may encourage more foreign investment.   But overall, manufacturers would probably face higher costs. They would struggle against foreign competitors that don't have the same trade barriers. For example, if a foreign-made car is cheaper and roughly the same quality, consumers abroad will likely lean toward Volkswagen over Ford, GM or other US car brands.   South Carolina is one red state that could be vulnerable in a trade war. The state has hung its economic hopes on manufacturing and trade. Those two industries make up about 30% of the state's jobs, according to Labor Department figures.   Experts say the tariffs could cut two, drastically different ways.   On one hand, they could benefit the state by forcing foreign companies to increase investment in the United States, says Douglas Woodward, an economics professor at the University of South Carolina. The state has already positioned itself as an attractive hub for foreign investment. Samsung recently opened a plant there.   Trade barriers can encourage foreign companies to invest in the United States if the cost of exporting becomes too onerous and the companies still want to sell to Americans. When President Ronald Reagan imposed a limit on Japanese cars in the 1980s, Toyota and some other automakers moved production to Kentucky.   But if other countries retaliate against Trump's tariffs, the benefits could be negated for states like South Carolina.   "It could really have a big impact on a trade-dependent state like ours," Woodward says. "That's the big risk here, we could get retaliation, we could get a trade war ... that could be damaging."   One in every 11 jobs in South Carolina depends on the state's four seaports, where shipping containers move in and out, according to the South Carolina Ports Authority. In total, 187,000 South Carolina jobs depend on trade at the ports.   On the other side of the state, the largest BMW plant in the world employs 9,000 workers in Spartanburg. BMW is the state's largest manufacturer by employment — and it exports more cars from the United States, by value, than any other auto company.   Boeing is another major employer in South Carolina, with roughly 7,500 employees in North Charleston. It uses less aluminum for its new plane models than it used to, but Boeing sells a lot of planes overseas. More than half its revenue comes from abroad, and that could be subject to retaliation. Another alternative is that airlines and governments could buy planes from European makers such as Airbus.   Trump has not exempted any countries from the tariffs. Boeing's top foreign markets are China, Canada and Japan. The first two have promised to retaliate if Trump goes through with the tariffs.   South Carolina also produces soybeans, and China is the No. 1 buyer of American soy. The crop stands to be one of the first targets if China and other countries retaliate. And it's not just soy farmers who will feel it.   Karst, the grain farmer in Montana, doesn't grow soy, but he's worried that soy will be targeted. If Americans can't sell soy to China, he argues, that will create a glut in the United States. And he says a glut of one crop tends to lower prices for others.   "That's just devastating," says Karst, 69. As for Trump's tariffs, they're "counterproductive to his stated goal of making sure America wins."  Who likes tariffs? Generally speaking, it's not the same people who like Trump
The people who like the sort of tariffs that President Donald Trump just proposed on steel and aluminum generally aren't the same folks who like him. Who likes the kinds of tariffs that President Donald Trump has proposed on steel and aluminum? Usually it's groups that are pretty critical of the Trump administration.   For example, the United Steelworkers union and the AFL-CIO were among the strongest supporters of the proposal. Both unions opposed Trump during the election, and both have fought most of his administration's efforts, such as tax reform.   "For too long, our political leaders have talked about the problem, but have largely left enforcement of our trade laws up to the private sector," said the Steelworkers' statement. "This is not what hard-working Americans want from their government."   AFL-CIO president Richard Trumka echoed those sentiments. "We applaud the administration's efforts to fix this problem."   Of course, many of the businesses that stand to benefit from tariffs on steel and aluminum are also backing Trump's proposal. The two trade groups -- the American Iron and Steel Institute and the Aluminum Association, both issued statements supporting a move against Chinese imports. But even the Aluminum Association has argued the tariffs should target China specifically, and not Canada or Western Europe, which Trump has indicated will be included.   But many other business groups and economists have criticized the tariffs, suggesting that they will raise costs for U.S. businesses and consumers and could spark retaliation from other trading partners.   But there are economists on the more liberal end of the spectrum defending the tariffs.   "I truly dislike the vast majority of things the Trump administration has done," said Josh Bivens, the director of research for the liberal think tank Economic Policy Institute, who wrote an column in the New York Times Monday defending the tariffs. "It's definitely very unusual for me to defend them."   Bivens argues that state-supported steel and aluminum plants in China create unfair competition to the U.S. industry and imposing these kinds of tariffs is a necessary first step to level the playing field.   "This is not a long-term fix," he says. "But this is a way to jumpstart that solution."   Even some Democratic politicians praised Trump's actions, including Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio. "This welcome action is long overdue for shuttered steel plants across Ohio and steelworkers who live in fear that their jobs will be the next victims of Chinese cheating," said Brown's statement. "If we fail to stand up for steel jobs today, China will come after other jobs up and down the supply chain tomorrow."   Senator Bernie Sanders promised to impose tariffs on China "until they stop dumping steel into the United States" during his 2016 presidential campaign, but his office declined to comment on Trump's tariff proposal.  Trump's tariff bombshell: Catch up here
Markets around the globe were shaken. Companies decried the plan. Economists condemned it. Foreign powers threatened to retaliate. President Donald Trump's plan to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and a 10% tariff on aluminum has lit a fire. The policy might be made official this week.   Here's how things got to this point:   The buildup   — The first hint that the Trump administration might soon make good on a campaign promise to tax imported steel comes when the Department of Commerce sends several recommendations to the White House. It includes a call for a 7.7% tariff on aluminum and a 24% tariff on steel.   — The department calls on Trump to claim the tariffs are in the interest of national security, saying he could implement them using a little-known provision from a 1962 trade law.   — Corporate America warns Trump that such tariffs could backfire. Business Roundtable, a lobbying group, says the national security justification is a stretch. The group also cautions that it could ignite a trade war if other countries retaliate with tariffs of their own.   — China says it will "take necessary measures to defend our rights" should Trump go forward with the tariffs.   Thursday   — Trump makes the bombshell announcement: He wants a 10% tax on all aluminum imports and a 25% tariff on steel.   — US stocks fall sharply, sending the Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq down more than 1%. One bright spot, however, is US Steel, which climbs 6%. Domestic manufacturers expect to face less foreign competition if the tariffs are implemented. But steel buyers expect to see their manufacturing costs climb.   — The European Union and Canada, which are key US allies, pledge to retaliate if Trump goes through with the plan.   — American steel and aluminum manufacturers praise the policy, but other businesses are not pleased. Many warn that consumers will see prices go up on everything from cars to beer and baseball bats.   Friday   — US investors wake up to find stock markets across the globe rattled by Trump's announcement.   — Reports surface that the tariff announcement sent shockwaves through the White House, where disagreement among aides stirred up a crisis.   — More US trading partners -- including Germany, Australia, and Britain -- voice strong opposition to the tariffs.   — China, the target of frequent attacks from Trump over its trade practices, responds by urging the US "to abide by the multilateral trade rules." How China will react to new tariffs is considered central to whether a trade war will break out.     — International trade experts say they expect the president's decision will make it easier for other countries to enact tit-for-tat tariffs in the name of national security.   — Trump responds to his critics in a tweet declaring that "trade wars are good" and "easy to win." Experts disagree.   — The European Union vows to hit back with tariffs on American-made motorcycles, bourbon, and denim jeans.   — Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross steps up to defend the president. He says during an interview with CNN that fears of a trade war are "nonsense."   — US stocks regain some of their losses. The Dow ends the day down 71 points.   Saturday   — Trump responds to the EU's retaliation threat by promising to slap a new tax on European cars.   — In a tweet, the president blamed "very stupid" trade deals and policies for racking up an $800 billion annual trade deficit. "Our jobs and wealth are being given to other countries that have taken advantage of us for years. They laugh at what fools our leaders have been. No more!" he wrote.   Sunday   — Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Zhang Yesui says the country "does not want a trade war with the United States" but warns it will "not sit idly by and watch China's interests being harmed."   — Amid questions about whether Trump will follow through on his tariff plan, Commerce Secretary Ross tells NBC he has does not believe the president will change his mind. "The president has announced that this will happen this week. I have no reason to think otherwise," he said.   — White House trade adviser Peter Navarro quashes speculation that Trump may exempt some US allies from the tariffs. "There will be no country exclusions," Navarro tells CNN.   --CNN's Julia Horowitz, Nathaniel Meyersohn, Steven Jiang, Yuli Yang and Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.  Trump uses tariffs as negotiating tactic in NAFTA talks
Make a deal with us, and I won't hit you with tariffs. That was President Trump's message to Canada and Mexico Monday morning as all three countries began to conclude a round of NAFTA negotiations in Mexico City.   Tariffs are Trump's latest negotiating tactic to make Mexico and Canada accept his demands on NAFTA, the three-nation trade deal. Last week Trump said he will impose tariffs on imported steel and aluminum from all countries. Over the weekend, his advisers confirmed that no countries are expected to receive exemptions from the tariffs.   Experts say Trump's tariffs could hinder an already difficult NAFTA renegotiation process..  We have large trade deficits with Mexico and Canada. NAFTA, which is under renegotiation right now, has been a bad deal for U.S.A. Massive relocation of companies & jobs. Tariffs on Steel and Aluminum will only come off if new & fair NAFTA agreement is signed. Also, Canada must..    "This makes it quite difficult politically for the negotiations to move forward," says Michael Pearce, an economist at Capital Economics, a research firm. "It's quite a significant barrier to any progress in the talks."   News of the looming tariffs didn't go over well with Canada and Mexico, which are among the top steel exporters and importers to and from the United States. That integration is thanks in part to NAFTA, which became law in 1994.   "Should restrictions be imposed on Canadian steel and aluminum products, Canada will take responsive measures to defend its trade interests and workers," Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said in a statement.   "Any measure that will not exclude the North American partners will have tremendous consequences on how we're integrated," Mexican Economy Secretary Ildefonso Guajardo told CNN's Richard Quest Friday.   All three countries have been mired in trade talks since last August that were sparked by Trump's insistence that NAFTA has been a raw deal for American manufacturing workers. Canada and Mexico argue that NAFTA has benefited each country.   Round 7 ends Monday, and NAFTA's future was already facing uncertainty and doubt. Economists say the most likely outcome is that talks get kicked down the road to 2019, but they don't rule out a U.S. withdrawal, which Trump threatens to do.   So far, no progress has been made on divisive issues, such as auto manufacturing.   Time is also running out for a deal to get done anytime soon.   Campaigns for Mexico's presidential election in July officially kickoff in a few weeks, and Mexican leaders have long warned they can't ratify a new deal in an election-season environment. Plus, the frontrunner in polls, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, says he would restart talks all over again if elected. The next president won't take office until December, and President Enrique Peña Nieto can't run for re-election due to term limits.   Then there's US midterm elections in November. Republicans on Capitol Hill have implored Trump not to tear up NAFTA or impose the tariffs. Some are already distancing themselves from Trump.   "If the president goes through with this, it will kill American jobs -- that's what every trade war ultimately does," Ben Sasse, a Republican senator from Nebraska, said in a statement Friday.   Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly stated when Round 7 of NAFTA talks concludes. Round 7 ends Monday.   Craft breweries fear Trump's tariffs will doom the boom
Craft beer has exploded in popularity in recent years. But a slew of challenges are slowing the once-surging industry. President Trump's looming 10% tariff on aluminum — think beer cans — poses the latest threat.   Brewers say the trade action will hurt a niche business that has created tens of thousands of jobs.   "It certainly puts a strain on the business," says Chad Melis, marketing director at Oskar Blues, a Colorado-based brewery with operations in North Carolina and Texas. "It will affect our ability to grow and create new jobs and invest in our communities."   When Melis started at the brewery 10 years ago, it employed five people. Today it employs 285. Across the country, 69,000 people worked at breweries that sell beer in a can as of last year, up from 27,000 a decade earlier, according to Labor Department statistics.   All craft breweries contributed $68 billion to the US economy in 2016, according to Bart Watson, chief economist at the Brewers Association, an industry group. There were 5,300 breweries that year, up from 1,500 in 2006.     Brewers say the tariff couldn't come at a worse time.   Competition is already at an all-time high, making it difficult for breweries to raise prices. Sales growth has slowed. The cost of hops has soared as a result of the beer boom and a limited supply.   And large beer brands, such as Budweiser, are scooping up craft breweries. With more financial muscle, the Budweiser-owned brands can more easily weather the extra cost of Trump's tariff and keep prices low for customers.   The aluminum tariff would hurt Melis' brewery. Oskar Blues cans 65% to 70% of the 200,000 barrels of beer it makes every year. A barrel is the size of roughly two traditional kegs. Melis estimates that the tariff would cost the business $400,000 more per year.   Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross argues that the tariffs won't raise customer prices much, adding it's "no big deal." For Melis, the increased cost is equal to about 1% of his revenue last year. But he says it will be difficult to swallow increased production costs as competition ramps up.   "It's a significant amount," says Melis, who sells beer in cans, in kegs for bars and at his breweries. He says he will try not to raise prices on customers. But he says, "It's a tough time to introduce the increase of cost of goods."     Beer cans have surpassed bottles in recent years. Brewers like cans because they're cheaper, they're easier to recycle, and a truck can carry more cans than bottles. Cans have also become canvasses for eclectic designs, providing more space than a bottle label.   For the Bronx Brewery, cans account for half the company's packaging costs. An additional 10% tariff won't help the budding brewery, which only sells in cans, according to its founder, Damian Brown.   He and a friend started Bronx Brewery in 2011. Today they have 17 full-time employees, several part-timers and a 10,000-square-foot brewery.   Brown says he has no immediate plans to raise prices or lay off workers. But if costs continue going up, he says, "eventually, everything translates into head count."   Brown, 37, is particularly irked by Trump's rationale for the tariffs. The president says that aluminum imported from all other countries, some of which is used to make beer cans, poses a risk to US national security.   "It's laughable," says Brown, who adds that the cost increase would be significant. "You'd be hard-pressed to make the case that canned sheet aluminum of that stock used to make beverage cans is in any way, shape or form a risk to national security."     The tariffs would also be a major hit to Fullsteam Brewery in Durham, North Carolina. Its pitch to customers is that it brews beer with North Carolina ingredients, from barley to spice bush to goldenrod. They're not cheap, nor is the local malter who turns raw barley into a beer ingredient.   Sean Wilson, Fullsteam's founder, says the tariff would be a significant cost increase for his brewery, which employs 26 people full-time and about as many part-time.   Wilson says Fullsteam has no plans to lay off workers. If aluminum becomes more expensive, he will try to attract more customers to the brewery's tap room so he can spend less on cans.   If costs go up too much, he says he would have to consider layoffs at some point. Fullsteam employees earn about $14 an hour, which is above the living wage of $11 in the state.   Wilson also says the tariff would force him to consider buying grains from more industrial-size farmers instead of mom-and-pop farms in North Carolina.   The tariff would chip away at "why we exist. ... It's worrisome, it's burdensome" Wilson says. "I worry about our ability to support the local farmer."  Need a medical procedure? Pick the right provider and get cash back
Laurie Cook went shopping recently for a mammogram near her home in New Hampshire. Using an online tool provided through her insurer, she plugged in her ZIP code. Up popped facilities in her network, each with an incentive amount she would be paid if she chose it. Cook, a school nurse who is covered through New Hampshire's state employee health plan, found that choosing a certain facility scored her a $50 check in the mail.   She then used the website again to shop for a series of lab tests. "For a while there, I was getting a $25 check every few weeks," said Cook. The checks represented a share of the cost savings that resulted from her selections.   Paid? To get a test? It's part of a strategy to rein in health care spending by steering patients to the most cost-effective providers for non-emergency care.   State public employee insurance programs were among the early adopters of this approach. It is now finding a foothold among policymakers and in the private sector.   Lawmakers in nearby Maine took the idea further, recently enacting legislation that requires some private insurers to offer pay-to-shop incentives, part of a movement backed by a conservative foundation to get similar measures passed nationally.   Similar proposals are pending in a handful of other statehouses, including Virginia, West Virginia and Ohio.   "If insurance plans were serious about saving money, they would have been doing this stuff years ago," said Josh Archambault, a senior fellow at the Foundation for Government Accountability, a limited-government advocacy group based in Naples, Florida.    Still, some economists caution that shop-around initiatives alone cannot force the level of market-based change needed. While such shopping may make a difference for individual employers, they note it represents a tiny drop of the $3.3 trillion spent on health care in the U.S. each year.   "These are not crazy ideas," said David Asch, professor of medicine, medical ethics and health policy at the Penn Medicine Center for Health Care Innovation in Philadelphia. But it's hard to get consumers to change behavior — and curbing health care spending is an even bigger task. Shopping incentives, he warned, "might be less effective than you think."   If they achieve nothing else, though, such efforts could help remove barriers to price transparency, said Francois de Brantes, vice president and director of the Center for Value in Health Care at Altarum, a nonprofit that studies the health economy.   Yet de Brantes predicts only modest savings: "Ideally, transparency is about stopping folks from continuously charging more."   Among the programs in use, only a few show consumers the price differences among facilities. Many, like the one Cook used, merely display the financial incentives attached to each facility based on the underlying price.   Advocates say both approaches can work.   "When your plan members have 'skin in the game,' they have an incentive to consider the overall cost to the plan," said Catherine Keane, deputy commissioner of administrative services in New Hampshire. She credits the incentives with leading to millions of dollars in savings each year.   Several states require insurers or medical providers to provide cost estimates upon patients' requests, although studies have found that information can still be hard to access.   Now, private firms are marketing ways to make this information more available by incorporating it into incentive programs.   For example, Vitals, the company that runs the program Cook uses, and Healthcare Bluebook in Nashville offer employers — for a fee — comparative shopping gizmos that harness medical cost information from claims data.   Crossing Network Lines   Maine's law, adopted last year, requires insurers that sell coverage to small businesses to offer financial incentives — such as gift cards, discounts on deductibles or direct payments — to encourage patients, starting in 2019, to shop around.   A second and possibly more controversial provision also kicks in next year, requiring insurers, except HMOs, to allow patients to go out-of-network for care if they can find comparable services for less than the average price insurers pay in-network.   Similar provisions are included in a West Virginia bill now under debate.   Touted by proponents as a way to promote health care choice, it nonetheless raises questions about how the out-of-network price would be calculated, what information would be publicly disclosed about how much insurers actually pay different hospitals, doctors or clinics for care and whether patients can find charges lower than in-network negotiated rates.   "Mathematically, that just doesn't work" because out-of-network charges are likely to be far higher than negotiated in-network rates, said Joe Letnaunchyn, president and CEO of the West Virginia Hospital Association.   Not necessarily, counters the bill's sponsor, delegate Eric Householder. "The biggest thing lacking right now is health care choice because we're limited to our in-network providers," said the Republican from the Martinsburg area.   Shopping for health care faces other challenges. For one thing, much of medical care is not "shoppable," meaning it falls in the category of emergency services. But things such as blood tests, imaging exams, cancer screening tests and some drugs that are administered in doctor's offices are fair game.   Less than half of the more than $500 billion spent on health care by people with job-based insurance falls into this category, according to a 2016 study by the Health Care Cost Institute, a nonprofit organization that analyzes payment data from four large national insurers. The report also noted there must be variation in price between providers in a region for these programs to make sense.   Increasingly, though, evidence is mounting that large price differences for medical care exist — even among rates negotiated by the same insurer.   "The price differences are so substantial it's actually scary," said Heyward Donigan, CEO of Vitals.   At the request of Kaiser Health News, Healthcare Bluebook ran some sample numbers for a Northern Virginia ZIP code, finding the cost of a colonoscopy ranged from $670 to $6,240, while a knee arthroscopy ranged from $1,959 to $20,241.   Another challenge is the belief by some consumers that higher prices mean higher quality, which studies don't bear out.   Even with incentives, the programs face what may be their biggest challenge: simply getting people to use a shopping tool.   Kentucky state spokeswoman Jenny Goins said only 52% of eligible employees looked at the shopping site last year — and, of those, slightly more than half chose a less expensive option.   Still, state workers in Kentucky have pocketed more than $1.6 million in incentives — and the state said it has saved $11 million — since the program began in mid-2013.   Deductibles, the annual amounts consumers must pay before their insurance kicks in and are usually $1,000 or more, are more effective than smaller shopping incentives, say some policy experts.   In New Hampshire, it took a combination of the two.   The state rolled out the payments for shopping around — and a website to look for best prices — in 2010. But participation didn't really start to take off until 2014, when state employees began facing an annual deductible, said Deputy Commissioner Keane.   Still, the biggest question is whether these programs ultimately cause providers to lower prices.   Anecdotally, administrators think so.   Kentucky officials report they already are witnessing a market response because providers want patients to have an incentive to choose them.   "We do know providers are calling and asking, 'How do I get my name on that list' [of cost-effective providers]?" said Kentucky spokeswoman Goins. "The only way they can do that is to negotiate."   Kaiser Health News is a nonprofit news service covering health issues. It is an editorially independent program of the Kaiser Family Foundation that is not affiliated with Kaiser Permanente.  Steel CEO on tariffs: Thank you, Mr. President
Big business has sent distress signals since President Trump decided to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum. But Tim Timken couldn't be happier. The CEO of TimkenSteel was in the room at the White House last week when Trump made the surprise announcement.   "We view it as a very positive thing," says Timken, who represents the fifth generation in the 101-year-old business. "I'm confident by the end of the week we're going to end up with something we're going to be very supportive of."   Trump plans to impose a 25% tariff on foreign steel and a 10% tariff on foreign aluminum. It's unclear whether certain countries will be exempt.   TimkenSteel is a publicly traded company, and the family has a controlling stake. It employs about 2,800 workers. Average pay is about $90,000 a year, including benefits, Timken says.   TimkenSteel's customers include General Motors (GM), Ford (F), Honda (HMC), Halliburton (HAL) and Caterpillar (CAT), among others.   It's been a tough few years for the company. Between 2015 and 2017, TimkenSteel laid off 380 employees because steel prices fell too low. It has hired back about 175 workers in the last several months.   China has long been accused of flooding the global market with cheap steel at prices that are unfairly low by US standards. Previous US administrations have imposed a litany of trade barriers on Chinese steel, which only accounts for about 2% of US steel imports. But China continues to sell en masse elsewhere, which suppresses global prices.   Trump's measure would also target US allies such as Canada, Mexico, South Korea and Brazil, all of which import more steel to the United States than China.   All those countries have warned they will retaliate against American exports. Even one of TimkenSteel's competitors with US operations, ArcelorMittal, has asked Trump to give Canada an exemption because it has a factory there too.   Timken says people need to relax, and he says no countries should be exempt, but that there's a fair case to made for some exemptions for certain products.   "There's a lot of talk about trade wars and retaliation. History would say those fears are mostly overblown," Timken says.   He points out that President George W. Bush imposed a 30% tariff on imported steel in 2002. Timken argues that the Bush tariff didn't cause widespread economic damage or trigger a trade war, with other countries imposing tariffs on US goods.   That's broadly true: Unemployment barely changed, hovering around 6%, and the economy continued to grow.   However, a 2003 report from the U.S. International Trade Commission found that the tariffs caused headaches for some businesses.   Nearly half of companies told the ITC they had trouble getting the quantity or quality of steel they needed. Employment in steel-consuming industries, such as car companies, fell or stayed flat. About a third of these companies reported production delays.   Corporations' profits rose, but companies cut back on investing in their operations — for example, buying new equipment — as they faced less foreign competition. Nearly 20% of companies said they passed higher prices on to consumers.   The World Trade Organization ruled the Bush steel tariffs illegal in November 2003. A month later, Bush removed them.   Timken says steel makers need more help today in a world where foreign leaders are dictating steel prices.   "Given a leveling playing field, I can go toe to toe with anybody in the entire world," Timken says. "My problem is that I'm competing against governments right now."  Trump wants to make it easier for you to access your medical records 
The Trump administration wants to make it easier for Americans to access their medical records. The MyHealthEData initiative, which will be led by the White House Office of American Innovation, aims to allow patients to obtain electronic versions of their medical records from all of their providers, regardless of whether they are in the same physician practice or hospital system.   Some 78% of doctors and 96% of hospitals use electronic health records. Still, gaining access to them has long been a challenge in the U.S. partly because it's in the providers' financial interest to keep a tight hold on patient information.   Consumers may have to go from doctor to doctor to get copies of their records, and they may not be able to obtain their complete files, said Seema Verma, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which is also involved in the effort.   "When providers don't have timely patient information readily available, tests are repeated, and we are paying for unnecessary treatments," she said at a health information technology conference Tuesday. "All this drives up costs and puts patient safety and quality of care at risk."   CMS is upgrading its Blue Button program, which provides traditional Medicare enrollees with claims data. The overhaul will allow developers to build apps that will let beneficiaries access their information. Currently, senior citizens can only obtain their data by downloading PDF files.   The agency will also make it clear to insurers who participate in Medicare Advantage and the Obamacare exchanges that it expects them to release their data to patients, Verma said.   CMS said it will require all providers to update their systems so they are able to give patients their records in a secure format. And the agency will specify what information -- ideally in an electronic format -- that hospitals must share with patients when they are discharged.  Why Paul Ryan can't (legally) stop a Trump trade war
Paul Ryan may have political clout. But he has no legal power to stop President Trump's tariffs. The House speaker says he's "extremely worried about the consequences of a trade war." On Tuesday, he urged Trump to take a "surgical" approach rather than imposing penalties on all imported steel and aluminum.   Urging is pretty much all he can do.   Now wait: You might recall from high school history class that the Constitution clearly gives Congress the power "to lay and collect taxes, duties," and so on. A tariff is the modern word for a duty.   So can Congress legally stop Trump from starting a trade war? Well, no.   Laws enacted by Congress over the past century authorize the president to impose tariffs, the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a research firm in Washington, noted in a report in September 2016.   So Trump can start a trade on war his own?   "The short answer, at least in the short term, is 'yes,'" said Gary Hufbauer, widely considered one of the nation's top trade experts. Hufbauer was a fellow at the institute at the time of the report and recently retired.   Believe it or not, the White House has traditionally been the pro-trade wing of the federal government. Congress has been more protectionist. It was Congress in 1930 that started a trade war by imposing tariffs on all other countries on a long list of goods, from eggs to peas to onions to sugar.   But since then, Congress has gradually transferred trade powers to the presidency, with unchecked authority, at least in the short term. Some trade authorities require congressional approval after several months. Some require none at all.   For the steel and aluminum tariffs, Trump chose a law that allows him to go around Congress. He invoked the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 — Section 232, to be specific. President Richard Nixon used it in 1971 to justify a 10% tariff on all imports. It only lasted four months.   The law says the president can impose tariffs on all other countries if imports pose a risk to US national security. In this case, Trump is arguing that steel and aluminum imported from Canada, Mexico and all other countries meets that standard. That justification baffles many foreign leaders and US business owners.   What's more, in the name of national security, the president doesn't have to get the approval of Congress, nor the independent US International Trade Commission. In other tariff investigations, the ITC gets to weigh in. Not here.   If Trump goes through with the tariffs, they will probably be challenged at the World Trade Organization, which resolves international disputes. But those court cases take about 18 months to wind their way through WTO courts, and Trump's trade team has indicated it may not respect all WTO rulings anyway.   Other countries may not be willing to wait that long, experts say. Instead, they'll retaliate with tariffs on US goods. That's exactly what Canada and the European Union have explicitly threatened to do. Other nations are hinting at retaliation, too.  The biggest thing Trump gets wrong on trade
President Trump believes that the nation's trade deficit is dire -- he regularly uses words like "catastrophe" and "disaster" to describe it. It's true there is a huge gap between the value of goods that are imported and exported -- it was $810 billion last year.   But that stark number misses an important point: The U.S. economy no longer primarily makes goods -- it's now overwhelmingly service-based, relying heavily on financial services, media, transportation, and technology.   And in terms of importing and exporting services, the U.S. posted a $243 billion trade surplus.   Indeed, businesses in the service sector employ five times as many people as companies that make goods.   "The U.S. is far and away most effective and successful producer of services," said Mark Zandi, chief economist with Moody's Analytics. "You look at our service side, we have a surplus with almost everyone on the planet. It's really something people need to focus on."   Steelmaking and aluminum are a "side show," Zandi added no longer central to the nation's economic well being. "The people in those industries are hurting and need to be helped. But the answer isn't pulling back on trade, it's helping those people."   Trump argues we need tariffs on steel and aluminum because those struggling industries are key the country's economy.   "When it comes to a time when our country can't make aluminum and steel ... you almost don't have much of a country," he said last week when he announced plans to impose tariffs.   But manufacturing industries such as steel and aluminum haven't been a central part of the U.S. economy for quite some time.   Seven of the ten most valuable companies in terms of market value -- Google parent Alphabet (GOOG), Amazon (AMZN), Microsoft (MSFT), Facebook (FB), Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA), JPMorgan Chase (JPM), and Bank of America (BAC) -- are service industry companies.   And if Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs spark a trade war that would be really bad news for the service sector, which benefit from imported goods.   Think of Starbucks (SBUX). Almost all the coffee it sells is imported, adding to the trade gap. But Starbucks keeps growing and adding to the U.S. economy, with 14,000 U.S. locations, and 185,000 U.S. employees.   "If Starbucks couldn't import coffee beans, it wouldn't be the success it is, and wouldn't employ all the people it does," said Zandi.   The same is true with America's most valuable company, Apple (AAPL), which imports most of the iPhones and computers it sells here.   "But the [physical] electronics aren't where the wealth is created," said Zandi. "It's what goes into the iPhones, the tablets, the laptops -- the apps, the music, the software - all the things that we produce here."   If President Trump wants to take a strong stance on trade to help the U.S. companies that matter the most, Zandi said, he would concentrate on protecting the intellectual property that the service sector relies on.  UnitedHealthcare will pass along drug discounts to some customers
Some UnitedHealthcare customers will pay less for prescription drugs next year. Starting January 1, the health insurance titan will pass along to consumers the rebates it receives from drug manufacturers. The move will effect more than 7 million people who are enrolled in a certain type of job-based insurance coverage.   Discounts can range from a few dollars to more than $1,000, depending on the medication. Before going to the pharmacy or placing an order for home delivery, UnitedHealthcare enrollees can log in to the insurer's website or mobile app to see the drug's cost, which will include the savings from the rebate. Manufacturers don't provide rebates on all medications.   Insurers say they usually funnel the rebates into lowering customers' monthly premiums. UnitedHealthcare (UNH)'s decision will not lead to increased rates, a spokesman said.   Drug prices are now in the spotlight with President Donald Trump and his administration promising to lower the cost of prescription medicine. The administration's fiscal 2019 budget proposes passing along more of the drug rebate to Medicare enrollees.   Health Secretary Alex Azar lauded UnitedHealthcare's announcement, saying it is a "prime example" of the movement towards increased transparency and lower drug prices.   "We are already seeing clear momentum toward the type of innovation in the private sector that will be an important part of the value-based transformation that is coming to America's healthcare system," he said.  The financial impact of winning (and losing) the birth lottery
In America, we like to think that everyone should have an equal shot at making a good living.  But plenty of research shows that's still not the case — your chances of getting ahead depends a lot on the zip code where you were born and racial discrimination still stifles careers. And a new analysis from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis finds that your parents' socioeconomic status holds a lot of sway, too.   The economists sliced data from the Federal Reserve's triennial Survey of Consumer Finances, which canvassed 6,254 families in 2016 about their demographics and their bank accounts. The main finding: How much money you eventually make has a lot to do with your parents' race and whether they went to college.   Whether you graduated from a four-year college yourself matters as well. But even then, it's hard to make up for the disadvantages of your upbringing.   "In principle, these differences could have been predicted at birth," the authors wrote. "Inherited demographic characteristics are very important determinants of adult outcomes like education, income and wealth."   How important? Here are a few takeaways.   The birth lottery's winners   Children born to families headed by white parents with college educations have the biggest head start, the researchers found. The median income for these folks by the time they reach middle age was $113,618 in 2016. That's nearly three times the median income of a non-white adult whose parents didn't attend college.   The disparity is even greater when it comes to net worth. By middle age, white people with educated parents have a median net worth of $374,640 — 14 times as much as people of color whose parents didn't go to college.     The impact of a college degree   The researchers found that the demographic characteristics of parents, therefore, exert a strong pull over the economic fortunes of their kids. The child's education matters too, but not enough to erase his or her demographic inheritance.   For example, a college-educated person of color born to parents who did not have get a college diploma made $70,749 by middle age — that's just a little more than half the $114,225 median income earned by college-educated whites whose parents have earned no secondary degree.   Why is having a college-educated parent so important to building wealth? Besides being more likely to put their own kids through college, the data showed that the children of college graduates score higher on financial literacy tests and are more likely to take risks to earn a higher return on their investments.   Because white people have historically had greater access to higher education than people of color, the inequity has become ingrained in the U.S. economy.   Who falls down the ladder?   Just as getting a college education helps people climb the economic ladder, not getting one can knock people down a few rungs.   White children of college-educated parents who don't get a diploma themselves end up making less than half of what similar people who did go to college make, and their net worth is a quarter as large. (Those white kids without a higher education still make 50% more than non-college-educated people of color whose parents graduated from college, however.)   These are only observations based on averages, not solid evidence that demographic characteristics themselves govern one's lot in life. But the St. Louis Fed economists expressed confidence that the strong correlations suggest the education and race of one's parents is at least hard to escape — and a big reason why it will take so much time and work to close the gap.  EU could hit US peanut butter and cranberries with tariffs
The European Union has given details of more American products it could hit with tariffs in retaliation for President Donald Trump's plan to tax imports of steel and aluminum. European Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström said the bloc is considering new tariffs on products including orange juice, bourbon, denim, cranberries, peanut butter and motorcycles.   The trade official said the full list of targets, which will also include American steel, and more industrial and agricultural products, would soon be made public.   Malmström described the Trump administration's plan to impose tariffs of 25% on foreign steel and 10% on imported aluminum as "deeply unjust" and a threat to European workers.   If Trump moves forward with the tariffs, Malmström said the EU would challenge them at the World Trade Organization (WTO).   The US has sought to justify its plan on national security grounds. Malmström said the EU has serious doubts about that rationale, describing the metal tariffs as "an economic safeguard measure in disguise."   Malmström said that any response from Europe would be "proportionate" and comply with WTO rules. She said new tariffs could be implemented in a matter of months.   With tensions running high between the US and EU, analysts have warned that the spat could devolve into a tit-for-tat trade war that would cause prices to rise and damage economic growth.   Trump threatened over the weekend to respond to any new EU trade barriers with a tax on vehicles made by European carmakers.   Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, responded Wednesday by saying that Trump was wrong about trade wars being easy to win.   "The truth is trade wars are bad and easy to lose," said Tusk, who added that the EU's goal was to "keep world trade alive."     The 28 nations in the EU produce 10% of the world's steel. EU trade officials are worried that jobs would be at risk if steel that would have otherwise been sold in the US is diverted to Europe, pushing down prices.   The US is the world's top steel importer. The value of steel shipped into the US was just over $29 billion in 2017.   China, which produces roughly half of the world's steel, has in the past been accused of dumping the metal on other markets, pushing down prices, forcing rivals out of business and killing thousands of jobs.  Gary Cohn's exit stokes fears that Trump will fight a trade war
Gary Cohn's sudden resignation as President Donald Trump's top economic adviser has rattled Wall Street, stoking fears the US could fight a trade war. Trump's plan to slap steep tariffs on all US imports of steel and aluminum appears to have been the last straw for Cohn, a former Goldman Sachs (GS) banker and free trade advocate.   Experts fear his departure removes a key restraining influence in the White House and could be followed by tougher moves against China, and the collapse of the North American Free Trade Agreement.   "There is now no one with the ear of the president who is a supporter of the existing trade system," said Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who specializes in trade and economics. "Trump will likely feel liberated by this, but it will only reinforce his own protectionist convictions."   The president's moves on trade so far this year have brought US policy closer to his aggressive campaign rhetoric that accused China and other countries of unfairly taking advantage of the US.   His announcement on steel and aluminum tariffs drew protests from major trading partners like the European Union and Canada, as well as criticism from some American business leaders.   Cohn's exit leaves Trump's trade policy largely in the hands of far more hawkish figures including Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and adviser Peter Navarro. Both of them have singled out China's approach to trade as unfair and argued in favor of using tariffs to press for a change in its behavior.   An increase in trade tensions is "close to inevitable," said Alex Wolf, a Hong Kong-based economist at investment firm Aberdeen Standard Investments. Cohn's exit makes Trump more likely to indulge the views of his more protectionist advisers, he added.     The planned steel and aluminum tariffs aren't targeted at a specific country and are expected to hit exports from countries including Mexico, Canada, China and Brazil.   The EU has already threatened to retaliate with its own tariffs on imports of American products including Harley Davidson motorcycles, Levi's jeans and bourbon whiskey.   Trump will have the opportunity to go after China directly when he reviews the results of an investigation led by Lighthizer into alleged Chinese theft of US intellectual property. It could result in heavy restrictions on Chinese investment in the US and tariffs on a wide range of products.   Cohn's resignation "increased the risk tenfold that President Trump will follow through with far-reaching trade tariffs," said Stephen Innes, the head of Asia-Pacific at currency trading firm Oanda.   Aberdeen's Wolf thinks China could respond by making life harder for American companies doing business in its huge market.   "US multinational sales in China are significant and it's a large source of growth," he said. "The risk is what does China does in regard to market access for the likes of Apple, (AAPL) Microsoft (MSFT) and Starbucks. (SBUX)"   Cohn's departure also comes as negotiations over NAFTA, the agreement that links the US, Canadian and Mexican economies, reach a critical point. Trump has slammed NAFTA as the worst trade deal in American history and repeatedly threatened to kill it.   He said this week that tariffs on steel and aluminum would only be removed if Canada and Mexico concede to his demands on a new deal, an approach experts say is likely to hamper the NAFTA talks.   In a call with Trump on Monday, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau "emphasized that the introduction of tariffs would not be helpful to reaching a deal on NAFTA," according to a statement from Trudeau's office.   Without Cohn arguing in favor of free trade inside the White House, the risk of the negotiations going awry appears to have increased.   "We're in for a fairly turbulent period, I fear," said Alden, the Council on Foreign relations expert.   -- Matt Egan and Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.   These are the top US exports
The United States is an exporting powerhouse, but you wouldn't know it given how much President Donald Trump complains about imports and trade gaps. Yes, the nation's businesses and consumers spent $566 billion more on imported goods and services in 2017 than the United States sold in exports. But American companies still sold $2.3 trillion in goods and services to foreign businesses and consumers.   Some trading partners have threatened to take action against American products in retaliation for President Trump's proposed tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. Europe said it may impose tariffs on Harley-Davidson (HOG) motorcycles and Kentucky bourbon. Brazil is threatening to cut back on purchases of U.S. coal.   Those may be high-profile products, but none are big US exports.   For example, Harley-Davidson sold about 45,000 motorcycles in Europe, the Middle East and Africa in 2017. All those bikes cost as much as a few of Dreamliner passenger jets from Boeing.   Top U.S. goods exports   Here's a breakdown of the biggest U.S. export industries in 2017, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.   Food, beverage and feed: $133 billion. Soybeans were the number one product in this category, with sales of $22 billion, followed by meat and poultry at $18 billion.   Crude oil, fuel and other petroleum products: $109 billion. This is one of the fastest growing areas of US exports, up 37% in just the last year.   Civilian aircraft and aircraft engines: $99 billion. This is what makes Boeing (BA) the nation's largest single exporter.   Auto parts, engines and car tires: $86 billion. Many of these are shipped to assembly plants owned by both US and foreign automakers in Mexico and Canada. It's one of the reasons losing NAFTA would be so hard for the auto industry.   Industrial machines: $57 billion.   Passenger cars: $53 billion. American auto plants supply much of North and South America with cars, and also ship to other markets as well. BMW's largest plant is in South Carolina, where it builds all of its X series SUVs. Last year it exported nearly three-quarters of the 371,000 cars it built there, making it the biggest car exporter in the United States.   Pharmaceuticals: $51 billion.   Top U.S. service exports   But the goods that the United States exports only tell part of the story. Services are the biggest US export, with total foreign sales of $778 billion last year. Indeed, the United States has a $243 billion trade surplus in services, which is good news since service industries account for 71% of US jobs.   These are the service industries that bring in the most money:   Travel and transportation: $236 billion.   Finance and insurance: $76 billion.   Sales from intellectual property: $49 billion. This includes software, movies and television shows.  Elon Musk, Trump and the challenges of selling cars in China
A back-and-forth between Elon Musk and President Donald Trump on Thursday highlighted the challenges automakers face when doing business in China. After Trump jotted off a tweet about America's "massive" trade deficit with the Asian nation, Musk responded with a question: "Do you think the US & China should have equal & fair rules for cars?"   Tesla (TSLA) vehicles shipped to China face a 25% import tax while a car imported from China to the United States is only taxed about 2.5%, Musk said, "a tenfold difference."   Trump read the tweet aloud during an event on Thursday formalizing his administration's plans for a 25% tariff on steel and a 10% tariff on aluminum imports, respectively. Those tariffs are unrelated to Musk's tweets, but Trump hinted during his speech that he may one day raise taxes on imported Chinese cars.   "We just want fairness," Trump said after reading Musk's tweet. "We're going to be doing a reciprocal tax program at some point — so that if China is going to charge us 25% or if India is going to charge us 75%. ... We're going to be at those same numbers."   Musk said in another tweet earlier in the day that he is "against import duties in general, but the current rules make things very difficult. It's like competing in an Olympic race wearing lead shoes."   "We raised this with the prior administration and nothing happened. Just want a fair outcome, ideally where tariffs/rules are equally moderate. Nothing more. Hope this does not seem unreasonable," another tweet said.  We raised this with the prior administration and nothing happened. Just want a fair outcome, ideally where tariffs/rules are equally moderate. Nothing more. Hope this does not seem unreasonable.    China is the world's largest car market. And most major American vehicle manufacturers have jointly-owned plants in China so they can avoid steep import tariffs.   But Tesla does not. The company wants to open up a factory in Shanghai, but Bloomberg reported last month that Tesla still hasn't landed a deal with local authorities to get it done.   Musk made it clear in a tweet Thursday that he takes issue with China's rule against foreign car makers owning more than half of any manufacturing plant in the country.   Mary Lovely, a trade expert and senior fellow at the nonpartisan Peterson Institute, said Tesla is likely hesitant to agree to joint ownership because it "has valuable intellectual property," and China has a big interest in boosting its electric vehicle know-how.   There are several native Chinese electric car startups that hope to one day compete with Tesla.   Lovely said there's a reason why the United States and China have such drastically different tariff rates for imported cars. It goes back to when China first joined the World Trade Organization, and it hashed out a deal with the US to keep car tariffs high while slashing import taxes on other goods, such as soybeans.   "China has always seen itself as a country that needs a strong domestic automobile industry," Lovely said.   And in the past, the 2.5% tariff rate for Chinese cars imported to the US hasn't mattered much. Demand for vehicles is so high in China that the country hardly ships any vehicles abroad.   That, however, is changing.   Volvo  (VOLAF)and General Motors (GM) both began selling Chinese-built cars in the United States in recent years. And as the Chinese market saturates, the country is poised to become a major car exporter.   That could mean it's time to renegotiate import and export tariffs, Lovely said. But she doesn't believe Trump's plan to delve into retaliatory tariffs marks the right approach.   "The fact that Trump brought this up shows that he doesn't know how trade negotiations actually happen," she said. "Just threatening has never worked with the Chinese."   Musk's twitter exchange with Trump came one week after the president announced the tariff plan, sparking fears of a trade war.   The new tariffs will initially exclude Canada and Mexico, Trump said Thursday. The duties will take effect in 15 days.   Last year, there appeared to be no love lost between Trump and Musk. The billionaire CEO quit two White House business advisory councils in protest after Trump decided to pull the US out of the Paris climate agreement.   But Trump has delivered glowing public comments about Musk in recent days, specifically about a historic rocket launch conducted by Musk's SpaceX last month. The inaugural launch of Falcon Heavy, the most powerful rocket in operation, captured the public by landing two of the rocket's side boosters after liftoff. They conducted a synchronized touchdowns back on ground pads in Florida.   Trump gushed about the spectacle to reporters on Thursday.   "To me, that was more amazing than watching the rocket go up because I've never seen that before. Nobody has seen it before, where they're saving the boosters. They came back without wings or without anything, they landed so beautifully," Trump said.  Closing the gender gap helps the planet and the economy
Kristalina Georgieva is the chief executive officer of the World Bank. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala is chair of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization and former finance minister of Nigeria. Both are members of the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate. The opinions in this article are their own. The fight for gender equality goes on every day of the year, but on International Women's Day let's take a moment to acknowledge how far we've come.   We can celebrate that more women and girls are getting the education we deserve. More are getting the healthcare we need. And more can finally enjoy the same legal protections afforded to men.   Women are speaking out more often and more effectively. Think of the 5 million voices raised at last year's Women's March, or the success of the #MeToo movement in bringing long-overdue attention to issues of sexual assault and harassment.   We are on the road to reaching gender equality, but we cannot slow down now.   Simply put, it is key to ensure that we, as a global community will be stronger and more able to face challenges, including the looming threat of climate change. We must also protect hard won development gains that have taken decades to achieve.   Almost half the world's economically active women work in agriculture. As managers and consumers of energy for household and small business purposes, they are also more likely than men to save water. We should beware of leaving their voices out of the conversation on climate action.   In countries where women participate more fully in political life, parliaments are more likely to set aside protected land areas and ratify international environmental treaties. In India and Nepal, forest conservation has improved as a result of their participation at community level in forest management. Conversely, when gender inequality is high, forest depletion, air pollution and other measures of environmental degradation are also high.   Empowered women are not only critical for the environment, but also crucial to the global economy. An increase in female labor force participation, or a reduction in the gap between women's and men's labor force participation, results in faster economic growth. Advancing women's equality could add billions to the global economy by 2025.   The road to reaching gender equality runs through the environment and the global economy. Women and children are 14 times more likely to die during natural disasters because of their greater vulnerability as a result of factors that include poverty and the social norms of their communities.   And after disasters strike, it is also generally much harder for poor women to recover their economic positions than their male counterparts.   For positive change to happen, the Gender Action Plan endorsed at last November's Climate Change Conference in Bonn must be turned into action and investments. And there are other powerful examples of women leading the transition to a low-carbon, sustainable global economy that we should learn from.   One example: The BOMA Project that helps vulnerable women in Kenya's arid lands adapt to climate change by starting small businesses in their villages. BOMA has already lifted more than 32,000 women and children out of extreme poverty.   Issues that disproportionately affect half the planet's population are not women's issues, they are issues for everyone. So as we celebrate our growing empowerment, we should continue to build on our successes by raising our voices in favor of shaping the better, fairer world we want to live in.  The risk lurking in the US mortgage market
Low interest rates. Easy credit. Poor regulation. Toxic mortgages. These were just a few reasons regulators gave for the collapse of the US housing market a decade ago. Since then, regulators have improved the standards that lenders use when Americans apply for mortgages.   But today increasing danger lurks in the mortgage market, and economists say it could put the financial system at "even greater risk" when the next recession strikes or too many borrowers fall behind on their mortgage payments.   A growing segment of the mortgage market is being financed by so-called non-bank lenders — financial institutions that offer loans to consumers but don't provide saving or checking accounts.   Borrowers with poor credit have increasingly turned to these alternative lenders instead of traditional banks. The alternative lenders are subject to far less regulation and have fewer safeguards when borrower defaults start to pile up.   "A collapse of the non-bank mortgage sector has the potential to result in substantial costs and harm to consumers and the US government," economists at the Federal Reserve and the University of California, Berkeley, write in a paper released Thursday at a Brookings Institution conference.   As of 2016, non-bank financial institutions originated close to half of all mortgages. They originated three-quarters of mortgages with explicit government backing, underscoring the risk to taxpayers.   "The experience of the financial crisis suggests that the government will be pressured to backstop the sector in a time of stress," the authors write.   The danger is that non-banks may have fewer resources to weather economic shocks to the mortgage market, like a rise in interest rates or a decline in house prices.   "What happens if interest rates rise and non-bank revenue drops? What happens if commercial banks or other financial institutions lose their taste for extending credit to non-banks? What happens if delinquency rates rise and servicers have to advance payments to investors?" the authors write.   "We cannot provide reassuring answers to any of these questions," they write.   In the past few years, the non-bank mortgage sector has exploded because of low interest rates and commercial banks "happy" to supply lines of credit to non-banks at favorable rates, the authors write.   But with it comes serious risk.   Non-banks face a higher risk that lines of credit will be pulled quickly in time of financial stress. Financial institutions often offer non-bank lenders short-term lines of credit to fund mortgage loans.   They are also exposed to so-called liquidity risk: They still have to pay mortgage investors even when borrowers skip payments. They also can't tap the Federal Reserve and the Federal Home Loans Banks to meet their liquidity needs like banks can.   What's more, these non-banks tend to originate mortgages that are less sound — less likely to be repaid — to minority and low-income borrowers. Those borrowers are likelier to be vulnerable to delinquencies triggered by economic shocks like a fall in house prices, according to the authors.   In 2016, 64% of the mortgages originated by non-banks were for black and Hispanic borrowers, and 58% went to low- or moderate-income borrowers.   The warning comes as the Trump administration, regulators and lawmakers are beginning to consider ways to reform the US housing market more than a decade after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were seized by the government in 2007.   "Less thought is being given, in the housing-finance reform discussions and elsewhere, to the question of whether it is wise to concentrate so much risk in a sector with such little capacity to bear it, and a history, at least during the financial crisis, of going of out of business," the authors write.  Trump officials say no to Idaho's plan to allow non-Obamacare policies
Not so fast, Idaho. Though it is doing its best to undo the Affordable Care Act, the Trump administration put the kibosh on Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter's plan to let insurers sell policies that don't meet all of Obamacare's mandates.   The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services said Thursday that Idaho would not be enforcing the law if it allowed these state-based policies. That could spur the federal agency to take over the state's enforcement authority and to levy civil penalties on any insurer that sold such plans.   "The [Affordable Care Act] remains the law and we have a duty to enforce and uphold the law," CMS Administrator Seema Verma wrote to Otter and the state's insurance commissioner.  (1/3) @CMSGov appreciates the concern of @ButchOtter for his citizens and their increasing premiums, which have increased 91.4% over the last four years alone because of Obamacare. @CMSGov looks forward to continuing to work with Idaho on its 1332 and 1115 waiver applications. (2/3) @CMSGov is committed to working with states to give them as much flexibility as permissible under the law to provide their citizens the best possible access to healthcare. However, the ACA remains the law. (3/3) Based on our review of the Idaho Bulletin, @CMSGov has reason to believe that Idaho would be failing to substantially enforce the provisions in Part A of title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act (the Part A market requirements) as amended by the ACA.  However, Verma did say that she wanted to work with Idaho and other states to repair the "damage" caused by the Affordable Care Act. She suggested that Idaho could legally implement many of its proposals through short-term health insurance plans, which don't have to adhere to all of Obamacare's rules. The Trump administration is on course to allow insurers to offer these plans for up to a year, rather than just three months.   Looking to reduce the cost of individual health insurance, Otter issued a controversial executive order in January aimed at allowing carriers to sell non-Obamacare plans as long as they also sold polices on the exchanges.   "We have been waiting patiently while Congress has been unable to find a solution and Idaho families have been forced to buy products that are too expensive and loaded with benefits they don't want or need," he said at the time. "Now the door is open for states to pursue our own reasonable solutions."   Blue Cross of Idaho took the governor up on his offer, unveiling a set of five Freedom Blue policies that could cost half as much as those sold on the exchange. It planned to start coverage on April 1, but has not yet started marketing the plans, a spokesman said.   The governor's office said that Verma's letter was not a rejection of Idaho's state-based plans, but an invitation to continue discussing how to set them up.   "Her letter made it clear that Idaho's efforts to pursue innovative alternatives hold great promise," said a statement issued Friday by Otter, Lieutenant Governor Brad Little and Insurance Director Dean Cameron. "We will consider all possible options and then continue discussions with [the Trump administration] on how best to achieve our shared goals of reducing the costs of coverage and stabilizing our health insurance market."   In a statement, Blue Cross called Verma's decision "disappointing" but said it leaves an opening for Idaho officials "to craft a solution to provide access to individual health insurance."   "As Idaho's leading health insurer, Blue Cross of Idaho stands ready to provide greater choice and lower cost health insurance to the 110,000 uninsured middle-class families in Idaho," said Charlene Maher, the insurer's CEO. "We are very concerned that every delay will negatively impact choice and affordability throughout the state."   Otter's executive order immediately alarmed consumer advocates, who worried that other states would follow suit if the Trump administration did not step in. Health Secretary Alex Azar had sidestepped the issue when asked about Otter's efforts.   Though it cannot repeal the Affordable Care Act, the Trump administration has been trying to chip away at it. In October, President Donald Trump issued an executive order aimed at making it easier for insurers to sell policies that don't adhere to all of the law's rules.   Acting on that executive order, the Department of Health and Human Services last month proposed regulations that will make it easier to obtain coverage through short-term plans. These policies are likely to be cheaper than Obamacare policies because they are allowed to exclude those with pre-existing conditions and base rates on an applicant's medical history, unlike plans sold on the Obamacare exchanges.   Also, short-term plans don't have to offer comprehensive coverage and can impose annual or lifetime limits, meaning they may only pay out a set amount -- often $1 million or less -- leaving the policyholder on the hook for the rest.  Hospitals offer big bonuses, free housing and tuition to recruit nurses
Five-figure signing bonuses, free housing, college tuition for employees and their children. Hospitals and other medical facilities are getting so desperate to recruit and retain nurses they're offering all sorts of pricey perks and incentives.   "These are some of the grandiose examples we've heard from our members," said Seun Ross, director of nursing practice and work environment at the American Nurses Association. "Who knows what employers will come up with next?"   America is undergoing a massive nursing shortage. Not only are experienced nurses retiring at a rapid clip, but there aren't enough new nursing graduates to replenish the workforce, said Ross.   The nation's aging population is exacerbating the problem. The American Nurses Association estimates the U.S. will need to produce more than one million new registered nurses by 2022 to fulfill the country's health care needs.   UCHealth, which operates nine acute-care hospitals and more than 100 clinics across Colorado, Wyoming, and Nebraska, currently has 330 openings for registered nurses. Since the nonprofit health system can't find all the nurses it needs locally, it has been seeking out candidates from other states -- and sometimes other countries.   To entice these new recruits, it has offered relocation allowances and signing bonuses of up to $10,000, said Kathy Howell, chief nursing executive for UCHealth.   UCHealth is trying to sweeten the pot in other ways, as well. It provides nurses with up to $4,000 a year to invest in continuing education. And it offers the Traveler RN program, which allows nurses to do a 13-week rotation at different UCHealth facilities.   Meanwhile, across the country, Inova Health System is offering candidates who have at least two years of critical care experience and live more than 50 miles from one of its six Washington, D.C.-area hospitals a $20,000 sign-on bonus and up to $20,000 in reimbursable relocation costs, said chief nursing officer Maureen E. Sintich. Candidates who live within 50 miles of one of Inova's hiring hospitals are offered a $10,000 signing bonus.   This fall, West Virginia's WVU Medicine, which operates eight hospitals in the state, will start offering tuition reimbursement for employees and their children.   "It's for nurses and for all of our staff who've been here for five or more years. We're also extending it for their children to fully cover their college tuition if they go to West Virginia University or partially cover tuition if they go elsewhere," said Mary Fanning, director of WVU Medicine Nursing Administration.   WVU, which is currently looking to hire 200 nurses, also offers free housing to some of its nurses as part of its commuter program. The perks, it said, are aimed at both attracting new recruits and retaining existing staff.   Lacy Russell, 24, applied for a job as an intensive care unit nurse with WVU after she learned about the commuter program from a friend.   Under the program, nurses who live 60 to 90 miles away from WVU's hospital in Morgantown, West Virginia, are offered a free place to stay. Russell, who was hired in 2016, lives an hour and 20 minutes away from the hospital. She stays at the hospital-owned lodging during her shifts Friday through Sunday.   "I save so much on gas by not having to drive back and forth," she said. "I graduated from nursing school with $30,000 in student debt. So this really helps."   She plans to work at the hospital for at least a few more years and also take advantage of the tuition reimbursement at some point so she can continue to advance her training and skills.   Did you recently go to the emergency room and receive a big bill? Tell us about it here.   Bonuses and incentives may help, but hospitals have another big force working against them: The booming US economy.   Periods of economic upswing aren't necessarily good for the nursing industry, said Susan Salka, CEO of AMN Healthcare, one of nation's largest providers of medical staffing services.   "During economic downturns, nurses stay put in their jobs and attrition dips," she said. "When the economy is booming, attrition goes up. Nurses feel more comfortable pulling back on their hours or moving ahead with their retirement decision."   In two-income households, if their partner is doing well financially, some nurses feel comfortable dropping out of the workforce to take a break from a grueling job, said Salka.     The American Nurses Association's Ross worries that rich bonuses and creative perks may not go far enough to retain nurses in the long run.   "What's to stop nurses from accepting a job because of the perks and then hop to another hospital after two years because of their perks," she said.   A better approach would be to invest in improving the work environment for nurses and offering better pay, career development and hours to help make sure they don't burn out, she said.   "All it takes is for one nurse to tell her friend that where she works is a great place for these reasons and applications will come in," Ross said.  In a trade war over steel, US farmers could be collateral damage
When his turn came to question Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin during a House Appropriations Committee hearing on Tuesday, Congressman David Young relayed a concern he'd just heard from a farmer in the hallway. "He says, 'There's not a day on the farm when a farmer doesn't touch steel,'" the Republican from Iowa told Mnuchin. "The agriculture industry is worried about these tariffs on aluminum and steel. How much do you know about the proposed tariffs?"   "I know a lot about the proposed tariffs," Mnuchin answered. "And I can tell you the president loves farmers and the agricultural community."   "It doesn't seem so with some of the policies that are coming out," Young shot back. "There's great concern with folks in the heartland, and concern as well with retaliation and what that may mean to the economy."   Mnuchin received a lot of criticism that day — even from members of his own party. While farm-state conservatives praised Trump's tax cuts and regulatory rollbacks, they didn't hold back when it came to their disapproval of a tariff tit-for-tat.   They have reason to be concerned. Historically, agricultural products take a hit when the US targets imports of industrial goods. Other countries have imposed countermeasures like tariffs on US goods and sometimes outright bans that have depressed sales.   The same thing may happen again now that Trump has carried through with his promise to impose tariffs of 25% on steel and 10% on aluminum.   In response to what it refers to as this "deeply unjust" plan, the European Union has said it is considering new tariffs on American products ranging from cranberries to peanut butter.   This is a familiar pattern. In 1995, for example, the United States banned Mexican trucks from driving more than a short distance over the border, after it had agreed to let them do so under the North American Free Trade Agreement. In 2009, following a drawn-out protest, Mexico retaliated with hefty tariffs on scores of food items, from ketchup to frozen corn.   The United States eventually lifted its ban on trucks in 2011, and Mexico dropped the tariffs. But the damage had been done: A study later found that the retaliation decreased sales of those products to Mexico by 22%, or nearly a billion dollars.   And already in the Trump administration, China has announced an investigation into American sorghum imports after the United States imposed tariffs on Chinese washing machines and solar panels. The United States sold nearly a billion dollars worth of the grain to China in 2017. Should China choose to impose duties on those exports, US farmers could be forced to cut prices in order to attract another buyer for their supply.   "This indicates to me a very real-world example that tariffs on those washing machines and solar panels led to retaliation, to the detriment of American farmers, constituents of the President and mine," said Kevin Yoder, a Republican from Kansas, during Tuesday's hearing with Mnuchin. "Is the president aware that these retaliatory tariffs are already occurring?"   Yoder's home state of Kansas accounts for nearly half of US sorghum production.   Why do American farmers so often get tangled up in trade wars? For one thing, they already have access to many world markets. In places where the US has negotiated trade agreements, they face low or no tariffs. US farmers have also been prodigious exporters: While the United States runs a $566 billion trade deficit with the rest of the world overall, it has a trade surplus of $21 billion in agriculture.   With so much going their way, farmers don't want to upset the international trade apple cart.   "There's nothing to win," said Daniel Sumner, an agricultural economics professor at University of California, Davis. "There's only stuff to lose."   The United States' trading partners know that farm products are a good way to squeeze a politically powerful constituency, particularly for Republicans. To wield influence, countries may target US products they can get elsewhere, like wine from Chile or soybeans from Brazil.   "We want to get your attention so you'll change your policy," Sumner said of countries that want the administration to abandon the steel and aluminum tariffs. "So you've got to get an industry that will be hurt enough to talk to their representatives."   Agricultural margins have already been shrinking over the years. Global commodity prices have sagged and the United States' longstanding subsidy and insurance programs for certain crops have become less generous.   A new threat came from President Trump's opposition to the North American Free Trade Agreement. The trade deal may have hurt some US manufacturers, but it was a boon to the agriculture sector, which has become highly mechanized and is therefore less dependent on cheap labor than products like cars, for example.   Two separate lobbying groups, Americans for Farmers & Families and Farmers for Free Trade, which is co-chaired by retired senators Dick Lugar and Max Baucus, have formed in the past few months to advocate for preserving NAFTA.    "Farm country is Trump country," said Matt McAlvanah, a former spokesman for the US Trade Representative in the Obama administration who now represents Farmers for Free Trade. "Our engagement is more important than ever right now."   To head off the damaging tariffs, the groups have been seeking the support of lawmakers who aren't from farm states, and working with governors like Arkansas' Asa Hutchinson to declare Agricultural Trade Awareness days.   It may be working: After initially declaring that the tariffs would apply to all countries, the White House said Canada and Mexico would be exempt if a new NAFTA deal is reached.   Meanwhile, American farmers are losing out in a more subtle way. The Asian and South American countries that were part of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal before Trump pulled out of it just signed a pact without the United States. That will create more favorable treatment for agricultural products like potatoes within the bloc, according to the USDA, disadvantaging US growers.   Although none of this has happened yet, Sumner said that the uncertainty chills investment in crops that take a long time to bear fruit.   "If I plant a walnut orchard, I'm looking to the next two to three decades," Sumner said. "If it's a crop that depends on exports, and you disrupt the potential for exports, that's a problem."   This story has been updated to reflect the signing of an order by President Trump to impose the steel and aluminum tariffs and the passage of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which both occurred Thursday afternoon.   Tariffs, Trump and trade wars: Here's what it all means
President Trump's steep steel and aluminum tariffs are official. The question now is how the rest of the world will respond. Trump has said the tariffs are a simple way to restore American industry to its former glory. But politicians, businesses and foreign nations have denounced the tariffs, and there's talk of an impending trade war.   Here's what you need to know.   What did Trump just sign?   Trump is imposing a 25% tariff on steel imports and a 10% tariff on aluminum imports.   Right now, only Canada and Mexico are exempt. But Trump left the door open for other countries to receive exemptions as well.   "America will remain open to modifying or removing the tariffs for individual nations as long as we can agree on a way to ensure that their products no longer threaten our security," he said.   The tariffs will take effect in 15 days.   What are tariffs?   A tariff is a tax or duty that the government places on a class of imported goods (tariffs on exports are very rare). In theory, this makes the foreign products more expensive — boosting domestic makers of the product, which don't have to pay the tax. The tariff is collected by customs officials and goes to the government.   Why does the United States want to put tariffs on steel and aluminum?   The goal is to protect domestic industry by propping up American steel and aluminum manufacturers. The hope is that as steel and aluminum from other countries gets more expensive due to the new taxes, more businesses will turn to American steel and aluminum makers to fill demand. Theoretically, that would breathe new life into industries that have been struggling for years.   It's also meant to address dumping, or the process by which a country sends cheap, excess steel into the global market. China is considered a major perpetrator of this.   Will these tariffs actually help American manufacturers?   Yes and no. American steel and aluminum manufacturers will get a boost, but it's not clear that they actually have the capacity to meet a huge surge in demand.   Other sectors of American manufacturing could be hurt by rising steel and aluminum prices. The tariffs would raise the cost of raw materials for automakers like Ford (F) and General Motors (GM), as well as Boeing (BA) and Anheuser-Busch (BUD). That could be bad for jobs in factories owned by those companies.   Will the tariffs cause prices to go up?   The cost of products like beer, baseball bats and cars could go up due to the tariffs, if the companies that make these products decide to pass the increased cost of steel and aluminum on to consumers.   Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross has insisted that any related price increases would be very, very small. He said last week that the price of a can of Campbell's soup would go up only six-tenths of one cent.   What are other countries saying?   First and foremost, they care about the negative impact the tariffs will have on their domestic steel and aluminum industries, hurting sales and jobs.   "An imposition of a tariff like this will do nothing other than distort trade, and ultimately ... will lead to a loss of jobs," Australia's trade minister said in a statement last week.   Other countries are also worried about the mechanism the United States is using to impose the tariffs.   Trump is using a little-known trade law to claim that steel and aluminum imports pose a threat to national security. Critics claim that undermines the rules of the World Trade Organization, and will ultimately disrupt the whole global trading system.   Allies like the European Union have bristled at the notion that their trade practices pose a security threat.   How will they respond?   A number of affected countries and political blocs have been very clear that if they're hit with tariffs, they intend to hit back.   The European Union, for example, has said it's ready to impose tariffs on Harley-Davidson (HOG) motorcycles, bourbon whiskey, Levi's jeans, peanut butter and cranberries.   The strong possibility of retaliation by some countries has ignited fears of a global trade war.   What is a trade war?   A trade war is one potential result of protectionism. It describes a situation in which countries retaliate against a country that imposes trade barriers such as tariffs and quotas. This could kick off a string of tit-for-tat responses that escalate international tensions.   Which American industries could be exposed in a trade war?   US agricultural exports like soybeans are thought to be particularly vulnerable. Other nations could also choose to buy planes from Airbus instead of Boeing.   If China retaliates, it could focus on consumer electronics — which would hurt Apple (AAPL) — or semiconductors, which would harm US chipmakers like Qualcomm (QCOM) and Intel (INTC).   What does China have to do with all this?   A lot. In the past, the president has directed much of his harsh rhetoric on steel toward China, the world's largest steel exporter.    Whether a trade war erupts now depends in large part on China's reaction. The country has denounced the tariffs but hasn't shown its cards just yet.   The Chinese Commerce Ministry on Friday called Trump's tariffs "a serious attack on normal international trade order," and said that Beijing is "firmly opposed" to the measures.   China has threatened to be tough in response to steel and aluminum tariffs in the past. There are a number of US industries against which China could retaliate, if it chooses to do so.   The Trump administration is also investigating intellectual property theft by China. The outcome of that probe could play into Beijing's response.   What about our trade deficit?   Trump keeps mentioning the US trade deficit with China in the context of tariff discussions.   "We're going to cut down the deficits one way or another. We have a deficit with China of at least $500 billion," Trump said Thursday.   By focusing on the gap between the value of goods that are imported and exported, Trump misses an important point.   The U.S. economy no longer primarily makes goods. It's now overwhelmingly service-based, relying significantly on financial services, media, transportation and technology. And in terms of importing and exporting services, the US posted a $243 billion trade surplus last year.   What does this mean for NAFTA?   That's a good question. Trump said that Mexico and Canada would be exempt from the tariffs as all three countries continue to renegotiate NAFTA.   But it's not clear what would happen if negotiations fall through.   How is the stock market responding to everything?   Wall Street has been on edge for a week about the tariffs, which could raise costs for companies and hurt the economy, especially if other countries retaliate.   But investors were encouraged by the exemptions for Canada and Mexico, and the prospect that other trading partners might be carved out, too. The Dow finished up 93 points. The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq also moved higher.   Steel companies took a hit. Their stocks' had climbed in anticipation of broader tariffs. US Steel (X), Steel Dynamics (STLD) and Nucor (NUE) each dropped 3% Thursday, and AK Steel Holdings sank 4%.   Did I hear Trump mention Elon Musk in his speech?   You did. Here's the back story.   Shortly before the event, Elon Musk, CEO of SpaceX and Tesla (TSLA), tweeted at Trump: "Do you think the US & China should have equal & fair rules for cars? Meaning, same import duties, ownership constraints & other factors."   He continued, in another tweet: "For example, an American car going to China pays 25% import duty, but a Chinese car coming to the US only pays 2.5%, a tenfold difference."   Trump read the latter tweet aloud on national TV, and responded that the US would "be doing a reciprocal tax program at some point — so that if China is going to charge us 25%, or if India is going to charge us 75% ... we're going to be at those same numbers."   What happens next?   A number of US trading partners and allies had been waiting to see if they'd receive an exemption. But for now, only Mexico and Canada won't have to pay the tariffs — leaving countries like Australia, Brazil and South Korea in the lurch, as well as the European Union (and, of course, China).   The next stop is probably Geneva, where the World Trade Organization is based.   The European Union said earlier this week it would file a complaint with the WTO, which will then need to determine whether the Trump tariffs violate its rules.   There's also a chance that countries circumvent the WTO — just as the Trump administration did when it instituted the tariffs unilaterally.  11 countries sign TPP trade pact without the United States
President Trump is going one way on trade. The world is going very hard in the other direction. Trump imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum Thursday only a couple hours after 11 nations signed the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a sweeping trade agreement that was once thought to be dead after Trump withdrew the United States from talks.   Leaders from Mexico, Canada, Japan and other nations officially signed TPP on Thursday at a ceremony in Santiago, Chile.   TPP's revival stands -- and its very nature as a multi-country trade pact -- defies Trump's trade views. His administration has sought one-on-one trade pacts, initiated dozens of trade investigations and started to renegotiate existing deals.   In January 2017, Trump withdrew the United States from TPP discussions before it became law, arguing that it was an unfair deal for the country. At the time, some leaders, such as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, declared TPP "meaningless." But eventually, world leaders revived the agreement that encapsulates 14% of the global economy.   The TPP countries are Australia, Brunei, Chile, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, Vietnam, Japan, Malaysia, Canada and Mexico.   Some of these countries -- particularly Japan, Mexico and Canada -- may get entangled in a tit-for-tat trade war with the Trump administration. It imposed a 25% tariff on steel and a 10% tariff on aluminum from all countries except Canada and Mexico. Despite their exemptions, Trump has hinted they may be subject to the tariffs if there isn't major progress in the renegotiation of NAFTA, the three-nation trade pact. So far, Mexico, Canada and the United States have made little progress after seven months of negotiations.   Japan accounts for 5% of US steel imports, double the share from China, the world's largest steel producer. Although there is widespread agreement that China has produced and exported too much steel worldwide, other nations and even Republican leaders on Capitol Hill asked Trump not to impose the tariffs, fearing it would risk retaliation.   Trump said the tariffs would take effect in 15 days.  Trump tariffs: Why sparing some countries could make trade chaos worse
The Trump administration says it plans to let some countries off the hook from steep tariffs on steel and aluminum. But far from soothing fears of a trade war, the exemptions could make the situation worse. President Donald Trump is expected to formally announce tariffs on US imports of steel and aluminum as early as Thursday.   The administration has signaled that Canada and Mexico will be spared from the measures while they renegotiate NAFTA, the agreement that opens trade among the three countries. The White House has suggested that other countries could also get special treatment.   It's still unclear what final form the plan will take. Experts, business leaders and investors already concerned about Trump's proposed blunt tariffs on steel and aluminum imports are flashing warning signs.   Bush tried this already and it didn't work   Dangling exemptions for Canada and Mexico "undermines" the administration's argument that the tariffs are needed to protect US national security, according to Inu Manak, a visiting scholar at the Cato Institute.   The tariffs are "being used by the president as a bargaining chip," Manak wrote in a blog post Tuesday for the research organization.   Mexico and Canada have been spared from US tariffs on steel in the past.   In 2002, the George W. Bush administration slapped temporary tariffs of up to 30% on all imported steel in an attempt to protect US producers from a deluge of imports.   With Mexico and Canada exempt, their steel exports to the US soared, according to a US government report.   Bush's tariffs didn't last long. The World Trade Organization ruled against the US, which led to a raft of retaliatory sanctions from big trading partners like the European Union. Bush ended up dropping the tariffs in 2003.   The saga was "a good example of the concerted resistance by US trade partners," said John Tang, an economics professor at Australian National University.   Allies may still fight back   Trump is likely to run into similar challenges if he goes ahead with the planned steel and aluminum tariffs.   Bryan Mercurio, a professor of international trade at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, predicts the United States will quickly face cases at the WTO, which it's unlikely to win.   Even countries who are initially exempted from the tariffs may still file trade discrimination cases against the US at the WTO.   They "may not want to establish a precedent and leave the proposed tariffs unchallenged," Tang said.   Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on Wednesday insisted that Trump was showing "a sensible, balanced degree of flexibility" in deciding how to implement the tariffs.   "I think you're going to see, as you understand the details of what actually is going to happen, that we're not trying to blow up the world," Ross said on CNBC.   'Crude implementation'   The possibility of some countries being spared from the tariffs, which Trump's trade adviser Peter Navarro had previously insisted wouldn't happen, raises the question of what the administration is trying to achieve with the measures.   "We're talking about a very crude implementation of a very blunt instrument," said Alex Capri, a professor of international trade at the National University of Singapore.   Canada is the biggest exporter of both steel and aluminum to the US by value, while Mexico is the third biggest for steel and in the top 10 for aluminum, according to data for 2017 from Panjiva, a global trade research firm.   If they are both left out, the tariffs would still affect other countries that Trump has accused of playing unfairly on trade, including China.   But the amount of steel and aluminum China sells to the United States is just a fraction of its overall exports of the metals. Chinese steel and aluminum shipments to the United States have already been targeted by previous waves of heavy sanctions.   "The new US tariffs would have little direct impact on China but would mostly harm exports from US allies," Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, wrote in a blog post Wednesday.   -- CNN's Patrick Gillespie and Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.  What could Europe offer Trump to escape tariffs?
What will it cost for Europe to avoid new US tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum? The European Union is lobbying the Trump administration in hopes of winning an exemption to the new tariffs, which President Donald Trump has imposed on all nations except Mexico and Canada.   "We are friends, we are allies," European Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström said Friday. "We are counting on being excluded."   Malmström will have a chance to make the EU's case again on Saturday, when she meets US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer in Brussels.   Trump has justified the import tariffs in the name of national security, but he said on Thursday that additional countries could be made exempt, and he left the door open to negotiations.   Analysts at Capital Economics said the move looked like "another example of Trump's favored negotiating tactic of announcing punitive measures in the hope of extracting concessions."   "The trouble is that key trading partners like the EU now appear more focused on retaliation than negotiation," they added.   What the EU can do   Concessions could be required to protect the $7 billion in steel and aluminum exports the EU sends each year to the United States.   "It's a very tricky situation made harder by Trump's approach to [trade] rules," said Peter Holmes, a trade expert at the University of Sussex. It's "not clear what [the] EU could offer that would not appear to reward his behavior."   David Bailey, professor of industrial strategy at Aston Business School in the UK, said that the first step could involve the EU demonstrating that its steel and aluminum exports are not a national security threat.   Ross Denton, a partner at law firm Baker McKenzie, said the EU may try to convince the administration to selectively drop tariffs on its most popular steel products.   That would allow Trump a symbolic victory while protecting jobs in the EU.   But Trump has shown he wants more. He slammed the EU this week for imposing higher tariffs on car imports than the United States.   And on Thursday, while making the link between trade and national security, he repeated previous accusations that some American allies have not been paying their fair share on defense. Trump specifically called out Germany, a member of the EU and NATO.   The United States spends much more on security and defense than NATO members including France, Germany and the UK. Trump has repeatedly called on the group to increase spending.   The EU was clear on Friday that it views tariffs and defense as separate.   "NATO related issues and trade are completely separate issues," European Commission official Jyrki Katainen told reporters.   Katainen said the EU could not address the issue because each of its 28 members set their own defense budgets.   "Increasing defense spending would make it a much more broad-based political issue, and not one which the EU trade commissioner could give any commitments to at this stage," said Allie Renison, head of Europe and trade policy at the Institute of Directors.   The China angle   Analysts said that the EU could also offer Trump help on China, a frequent target of the American president, which produces roughly half the world's steel.   Steelmakers have in the past accused China of overproducing and dumping steel on other markets, pushing down prices, forcing rivals out of business and killing thousands of jobs.   The United States and EU previously sought to level the playing field with targeted tariffs.   "The US and EU could agree to work more closely to target Chinese overcapacity in steel," said Renison.   Bailey said that the EU could enlist allies like Canada, South Korea and Japan to bring a case against China at the World Trade Organization.   Plan B   If the Trump administration is not receptive, the EU could turn to its backup plan: retaliation.   Malmström said earlier this week that the EU would challenge the tariffs at the World Trade Organization.   The bloc is also considering new tariffs on American products including orange juice, bourbon, denim, cranberries, peanut butter and motorcycles.   Updated: This article has been updated to clarify comments from Peter Holmes.  Jobs report surprise: 313,000 added in February
American businesses are on a hiring spree. The US economy added 313,000 jobs in February. That was much stronger than economists expected and the biggest gain since July 2016, according to Labor Department figures published Friday.   "The headline number is pretty outstanding," says Cathy Barrera, chief economist at ZipRecruiter, a job recruitment site.   The unemployment rate stayed at 4.1%, the lowest in 17 years.   Wages grew 2.6% compared with a year earlier, a few notches below the pace in January. That delighted investors: The Dow opened up 150 points.   More modest wage growth cools fears about inflation and rising US interest rates, both of which spooked the markets last month. The initial wage growth figure from January was revised down a notch, too.   In the first two months of the year, the United States has already added more than half a million jobs. February also marked the 89th consecutive month of job gains, the longest streak since the Labor Department began keeping track in the 1940s.   More Americans are coming off the sidelines and into the job market. The participation rate, which reflects people who are working or looking for a job, registered its best one-month gain in nearly eight years and is at 63%. The rate has been in long-term decline for several reasons, including Baby Boomers retiring.   "We're heating up, but there's still plenty of room to pull more Americans back into the workforce," says Guy Berger, chief economist at LinkedIn. "We still have more room to run for this expansion."   Job gains for December and January were both revised higher, and new positions were added across industries in February.   Manufacturing businesses hired 31,000 workers. Banks and financial institutions added 28,000 jobs. Construction gained a robust 61,000 employees. Even mining firms, a job-losing industry in recent years, hired 9,000 workers.   The good news on jobs stood in contrast to major concerns from business owners and advocates about the steel and aluminum tariffs that President Trump announced Thursday for all countries except Canada and Mexico.   Economists have warned that industries that use steel and aluminum — from car companies to craft breweries — could face significant job losses as a result of the tariffs. The Trump administration says costs will go up marginally and won't lead to widespread job cuts.   For now, though, the US job market remains the biggest strength of the economy's recovery from the Great Recession. The economy has grown, albeit slowly, for almost nine years, making this the third-longest period of growth in US history.  Why Japan's economy still needs help after $3 trillion binge
Interest rates are rising in many of the world's major developed economies, with one big exception: Japan. The world's third-biggest economy is stuck with negative interest rates and an enormous easy money program. That contrasts starkly with the United States and Europe, where central bankers are more focused on how quickly to hike rates and wind down the massive stimulus measures they introduced after the global financial crisis.   The reason for the difference is inflation. Or in Japan's case, the persistent lack of it.   Inflation has been steadily rising in both the United States and Europe over the past couple of years. Mild price increases are seen as positive because they encourage consumers to spend, generating more economic activity.   But since Japan's economic bubble burst in the early 1990s, prices have mostly been stagnating or falling. That's bad news economically because declining prices encourage consumers to put off spending.   "If you're 40 years old, you've spent half of your life in a world where prices tend to fall rather than increase," said Takuji Okubo, managing director at consultancy firm Japan Macro Advisors. It's a tough mindset for many Japanese consumers to shake off, in Okubo's view.   Buying up the bond market   The Bank of Japan has resorted to a number of drastic measures to try and deal with the problem.   The moves were led by the central bank's governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, who's expected to be reappointed to the job this month as his first five-year term comes to an end.   Under Kuroda, the bank embarked on a huge buying spree of government bonds in 2013 and stunned markets by expanding it the following year. The aim is to push down borrowing rates and encourage companies to invest more.   The approach means the bank has spent a staggering amount of money: its holdings of Japanese government bonds have soared by more than 330 trillion yen ($3 trillion) since Kuroda launched the stimulus program.   Because of the huge purchases, the central bank now owns almost half of the entire Japanese government bond market, according to data from Japan Macro Advisors.   In early 2016, the central bank took another extreme step, moving one of its key interest rates into negative territory, an attempt to prod banks to stop hoarding cash and lend more of it out to businesses and consumers.     Inflation stirring   Things have begun to change, but only very slowly. Inflation in Japan has picked up in recent months and reached almost 1% at the end of 2017 -- its highest level in years.    But it took a huge amount of effort just to get there. And Kuroda wants inflation closer to the bank's target of 2% before he seriously considers turning off the money spigot.   The central bank left its policy unchanged Friday following a two-day meeting. Marcel Thieliant, a Japan expert at Capital Economics, said he expects the bank's stance to remain the same "for the foreseeable future."   The Japanese economy is in decent shape. It has now grown for eight quarters in a row, its longest expansionary streak since the 1980s.   But many experts are skeptical that it's enough to push inflation much higher.   "Wage increases remain slack and many companies are having difficulties raising selling prices," said Harumi Taguchi, an economist at IHS Markit.   Helicopter money?   Kuroda could have his work cut out in a second term.   According to Okubo, Japan could fall into a recession within the next couple of years if global growth cools off.   "Then they might have to do something very radical" to stimulate the economy, he said. That might include pushing rates further into negative territory or even transferring cash into the hands of citizens in a controversial policy known as "helicopter money," something Kuroda has previously ruled out.   Government help needed   Experts say the Bank of Japan can't solve the country's economic problems on its own.   Economists want the Japanese government to push through big reforms, such as opening up the country's labor market. That could include bringing more immigrant workers into the aging Japanese workforce and removing barriers that make it hard for Japanese women to build careers.   "It is difficult to create demand by monetary policy," Taguchi said. "Structural reforms are critically important to improving Japan's productivity."   But Japan may have to wait a long time for those changes.   Okubo suggests Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who was re-elected in October, has bigger priorities such as his desire to pursue the politically sensitive path of revamping the country's military in response to the rise of China.   "Abe talks about economic reform, but he doesn't really want to spend political capital on it," Okubo said.  A flood of job hunters are back in the labor market
Job seekers flooded into the labor market in February, as a large number of job openings brought back people who had previously given up looking. The size of the labor market, which includes both people with jobs and those looking for work, swelled by 806,000 in the jobs report Friday. That's the biggest one-month gain since 2003, and the 10th largest ever on record.   The surge meant that the labor participation rate spiked 0.3 percentage points to 63%, the biggest one-month jump in that closely watched measure since 2010, when the economy was emerging from the Great Recession.   The surge of people looking for work is one reason that the unemployment rate didn't fall despite an unexpectedly strong gain of 313,000 jobs in the month. People who are not actively looking for work are not counted as unemployed and thus are not counted in the nation's labor force.   This is the second straight month that the size of the labor force posted a big jump. In January in increased by 518,000 for a total of 1.3 million increase over two months. The bureau says part of that jump is due to a change in the way the government estimates the size of the population. Part of it is also probably due to a wave of workers relocating from Puerto Rico to the mainland United States after Hurricane Maria.   "It's certainly encouraging," said Gus Faucher, chief economist for PNC Financial. "I don't want to make too much out of a couple of months of growth, but you've got a lot of people who are encouraged by the strong job market."   Another sign that sidelined job hunters are coming back is a drop in the number people counted as "discouraged workers" by the labor department.   Another indication that people feel better about the labor market is the jump in the number of people quitting jobs, which is measured by a separate labor market report. An increase in the "quit rate" means people either are finding new jobs or are confident that they will.   Workers haven't felt this good about the labor market since the white-hot job market of late 1999 and early 2000, according to a recent Conference Board's survey. Nearly 40% of those surveyed in February said jobs are plentiful, compared to only 15% who said jobs are tough to find.   Gad Levanon, the Conference Board's chief economist, said the higher participation rate is even higher -- 82% -- when you narrow it down to people in their prime working years, ages 25 to 54, which limits the impact of all the baby boomers those who are retiring. That's that best reading since 2010.   "That has really skyrocketed in the last year," he said.   Economists have been worried whether the US labor market could to grow as it approaches full employment, since it's getting harder for employers to find the workers they want in order to add jobs. But the surge in returning workers could help that shortage.   "Certainly, it creates upside potential for job growth and economic growth potential in 2018 and 2019," said Faucher.  Mnuchin: US in talks with countries seeking tariff exemptions
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says countries are already calling him to get out of President Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs. "There will be a lot of high-level discussions as we proceed with this," he said Friday after touring a JetBlue facility in New York to celebrate the company's tax cut bonuses.   Canada and Mexico were left out, and Trump held out the possibility that other countries and American corporations could get exemptions, too.   Mnuchin said he's spoken to "many of my other counterparts already." He did not give details.   Trump signed an order Thursday imposing a 25% tariff on imported steel and a 10% tariff on imported aluminum, both to take effect in 15 days.   Mnuchin also said the Commerce Department will provide details in the next 10 days about specific products that could be exempt from the tariffs.   He said those exclusions would apply because "we can't make that product or there are national security issues."  'A serious attack' -- Major US trading partners blast Trump's tariffs
President Donald Trump has moved ahead with steep tariffs on steel and aluminum, upsetting many of America's biggest trading partners. The measures are more nuanced than what Trump and his advisers had initially threatened to do. Canada and Mexico are exempt from the tariffs for the time being, and other US allies will be allowed to apply to be let off.   But analysts have warned the move -- which Trump says is necessary for American national security -- will still ramp up tensions and could lead to a trade war.   Here's how the countries that do the most trade with the United States are responding:   China: 'A serious attack'   China, the world's biggest exporter, accused the United States of carrying out protectionism in the name of national security.   The Chinese Commerce Ministry called Trump's tariffs "a serious attack on normal international trade order" and said that Beijing is "firmly opposed" to the measures.   Some form of retaliation appears likely from China, with which the US traded more goods than any other country last year. Beijing will take "firm actions" if the tariffs inflict losses on Chinese businesses, Commerce Ministry official Wang Hejun said Friday.   Trump has directed much of his harsh rhetoric on steel toward China, the world's largest exporter of the metal. But the vast majority of Chinese steel shipments go to other countries. Barely 2% of the steel imported into the US last year came from China, according to data from S&P Global Platts.   The world's two largest economies buy and sell a huge amount of other goods from each other, though. Total trade between the countries reached $636 billion last year, according to US government data.     South Korea: Steel tariffs are 'unjust'   Using national security as a pretext to limit imports of South Korean steel is "unjust," Trade Minister Paik Un-gyu said in a statement Friday expressing his "displeasure" at the move.   South Korea will use Trump's tariffs as an opportunity to seek new markets for its steel, the Trade Ministry said in a statement. But it added that it will "do its best" to get on the list of countries that are exempt from the restrictions.   Seoul will "actively respond" to the tariffs, the ministry said, but it didn't specify whether it would take any retaliatory action against US goods.   South Korea is the sixth biggest US trading partner and a key military ally in Asia. It's also the third largest exporter of steel to the US, accounting for about 10% of US imports of the metal by volume, according to S&P Global Platts.   Japan: Trump's decision is 'regrettable'   Japan, another major US ally in Asia, called Trump's decision to impose tariffs "regrettable."   "This measure might impact the economy and the cooperative relationship between Japan and the US," the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement on Friday.   It said it would study the move's impact on Japanese companies before responding further.   Japan is the fourth biggest trading partner with the US. It accounts for about 5% of steel imported to the US, according to S&P Global Platts.   European Union: Clarity is needed   European Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström said in a tweet that the European Union is a "close ally" of the United States and "we continue to be of the view that the EU should be excluded from these measures."   "I will seek more clarity on this issue in the days to come," Malmström said, adding that she would discuss the issues with United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer on Saturday in Brussels.   The EU has said it could respond with new tariffs on American products including orange juice, bourbon, denim, cranberries, peanut butter and motorcycles.   The bloc has also said it would challenge the legality of the US metal tariffs at the World Trade Organization.   The UK's top trade official, Liam Fox, said on Thursday evening in Britain that "the way that the United States is going about this is wrong." He said the idea that Britain would be penalized on national security grounds was "absurd."   The EU represents many top US trading partners, including Germany, the UK, France and Italy.   Canada: Exemption is 'a step forward'   Canada is expressing cautious optimism after Trump announced the country is exempt from the new steel and aluminum tariffs.   The outcome "is a step forward," Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said in a statement Thursday.   Trump said that Mexico and Canada would be spared from the tariffs as they continue to renegotiate NAFTA with the US. But it's not clear what would happen if those talks fall through.   Canada is drawing a line between the two issues.   The new metal tariffs and the NAFTA negotiations "are separate and let me underscore that they are on a separate track," Freeland told reporters.   Canada is the largest supplier of both steel and aluminum to the US.   It's also the US' second largest trading partner, accounting for more than $580 billion worth of imports and exports of goods last year.   Mexico: Tariffs are separate from NAFTA talks    Mexico, the third biggest trading partner with the US, was also exempted from Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs.   Like Canada, it pointed out that any negotiations over these tariffs are separate from the ongoing NAFTA talks.   The renegotiation process for NAFTA "follows its course independently of this or any domestic policy measure taken by the US government," the Mexican Economy Ministry said in a statement.   "Mexico reiterates that the negotiation of NAFTA should not be subject to conditions outside the process," it added.   Mexico is the fourth biggest supplier of steel to the US, accounting for 9.3% of total imports, according to S&P Global Platts.   US goods trade with Mexico was worth nearly $560 billion last year.   -- Steven Jiang, Nanlin Fang, Jake Kwon, Charles Riley, Yoko Wakatsuki, Patrick Gillespie and Julia Horowitz contributed to this report.  Are Trump's tariffs legal?
President Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs raise two big questions. Are they legal?   And will it matter if they're not?   The first question is something of a toss-up. The Trump administration may have already answered the second.   Economists aren't sure whether the tariffs are legal. For one thing, no one knows yet how they will be applied.   Canada and Mexico were already granted exemptions, although Trump has hinted that he will cancel them if NAFTA renegotiation talks don't make progress soon. Trump has also left open the possibility that other countries will be excused.   "There's just a lot of uncertainty," says Paul Ashworth, chief US economist at Capital Economics, a research firm.   Countries can challenge other nations' tariffs through a panel of judges at the World Trade Organization in Switzerland.   In 2003, the WTO ruled that sweeping steel tariffs imposed by President George W. Bush were illegal. Bush had argued that imports were hurting American manufacturers. The WTO ruled that the Bush administration hadn't provided enough evidence to prove it.   Technically, Trump wouldn't have to remove the tariffs if the WTO declared them illegal. But such a ruling would mean the US would have no protection at the WTO if other countries imposed their own tariffs in retaliation.   A clause in the WTO rules allows countries to apply tariffs if national security is at stake. Trump says his steel and aluminum tariffs meet that standard because the United States has lost so many manufacturing jobs — 4.6 million just since 2000.   Many economists and business owners question the Trump administration's argument that foreign-made steel and aluminum — some of which goes into American-made cars, kitchen appliances and beer cans — is a risk to national security.   "This would certainly push the limits on that," says Robert Scott, a trade expert at the Economic Policy Institute. But Scott notes: "The WTO can't really force you to change your trade policy."   A WTO spokesperson said the organization has never ruled on a case involving national security. Countries have filed complaints about national security tariffs, but either the tariffs were dropped or the cases never proceeded. And none of those disputes were about tariffs as significant as Trump's.   The spokesperson also said the WTO has fielded some informal concerns from countries about Trump's tariffs, but no formal complaint. The tariffs take effect in two weeks.   WTO court cases typically take about 18 months to be resolved. Even if the WTO panel rules after that time that Trump's tariffs are illegal, Trump administration officials indicated last year that they may not care that much.   In the administration's 2017 Trade Policy Agenda, the U.S. Trade Representative's office, a wing of the White House, said that a WTO ruling against the United States would not "automatically lead to a change in U.S. law or practice."   The USTR declined to comment for this article.  What Xi Jinping's power play means for China's economy
A big change to China's constitution could have major consequences for the world's second largest economy. China's rubber stamp parliament on Sunday amended the constitution to remove the limit on the number of terms the president can serve. That means President Xi Jinping could rule for life.   Political experts say the move means China is becoming more authoritarian. Some economists are worried, too.   "Concentrating power in fewer hands is risky," said Julian Evans-Pritchard, a China economist at Capital Economics. He says other top officials will be less likely to push back against a more powerful Xi, even if the president's plans could harm the economy.   If that happens, "the quality of policy making will suffer," Evans-Pritchard added.   The stakes are high. China's economy needs big reforms, particularly to address its soaring corporate debt.   Debt worries   China's total debt has increased rapidly since the global financial crisis. By the middle of last year, it was more than two and a half times the value of the entire Chinese economy, according to the Bank of International Settlements.   Xi and other top officials have talked about reducing risks in the financial system. But analysts say the government hasn't yet taken real steps to cut debt, which could do serious damage to the economy if left unchecked.   Moody's and S&P angered China last year by downgrading its credit rating and warning about debt.   Alex Wolf, an economist at Aberdeen Standard Investments in Hong Kong, says Xi may not be the right man to push China's economy "to the next level."   He points out that propping up growth will only get harder as China's population ages and its workforce shrinks.     Under Xi, China hasn't done enough to promote innovation or protect intellectual property, while the government is still too eager to direct investment to the wrong places and reluctant to embrace free markets, according to Wolf.   "China's future rests on the shoulders of one man," he said. "Long term, that creates a lot of questions."   Potential upside   But some experts argue that extending Xi's period in office could help him to step up efforts to address the economic problems China faces, and lead to greater continuity in policy.   "I think it can be positive for reforms given that Xi has more time," said Aidan Yao, an economist at Axa Investment Managers in Hong Kong.   It may also give Xi a firmer foundation from which to respond to increasingly aggressive trade moves against China by the Trump administration, which have fueled fears of a potential trade war.     Xi's power play will boost "China's ability to get things done," said Rob Carnell, an economist at investment bank ING in Singapore.   That may include giving foreign investors more access to China's financial markets, making it easier to trade the country's currency and reducing the economy's reliance on exports.   Carnell contrasted Xi's position with those of European leaders whose "weak coalitions" make it harder to push through tough reforms.   "By all means, lament the lack of political debate in China," he said. "But from an investment perspective, there are some upsides."  Will hitting China with tariffs kill India's solar dreams?
India wants to become a solar powerhouse, generating enough energy for more than 16 million homes by 2022. The government has approved dozens of new solar plants, rooftop projects and lighting systems, and is offering financial incentives to companies that build them. And Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host the first gathering of the International Solar Alliance in New Delhi on Sunday, with French President Emmanuel Macron in attendance.   But the international summit comes as India's plan to slap a 70% tariff on imported solar panels divides the country's industry. Panel installers say the tariffs could kill any hope of hitting the 2022 target, while panel makers say they're vital to prevent China from gaining too much influence.   'It will jeopardize the entire plan'   China, Taiwan and Malaysia supply between 80% and 90% of India's solar panels, according to industry estimates.   Import duties could make solar electricity up to 45% more expensive, said Sunil Kulkarni, head of the renewable energy business at Shapoorji Pallonji, an infrastructure company.   "These tariffs will hurt the industry," Kulkarni said.   His company has challenged the tariffs in an Indian court, which suspended their implementation pending a ruling. The Indian government did not respond to a request for comment on the tariffs.   India's solar power capacity is around 16,000 megawatts. Under Modi's plan, that should rise to 100,000 megawatts by 2022.   Solar project developers say the goal is impossible to achieve without cheap Chinese components.   "[Tariffs] will jeopardize the entire plan," said Ketan Mehta, the founder and CEO of Rays Power Infra. "India does not have the [manufacturing] capacity anywhere close to what we want to do," he added.   Vinay Rustagi, the head of renewable energy consultancy Bridge to India, said a 70% tariff would be "catastrophic."   "Domestic manufacturers are unable to compete with their Chinese competitors because of obsolete technology, sub-scale operations and lack of domestic supply chains," Rustagi said.   India cannot 'blindly' depend on China    Indian manufacturers, however, say a failure to support homegrown production will jeopardize Modi's ambitions by giving China too much control over India's solar industry.   "The Indian solar program cannot be blindly dependent upon China," Dhruv Sharma, CEO of Jupiter Solar Power and one of the leading petitioners for government tariffs, told CNN.   "If you do not nurture domestic manufacturing, and the Chinese know that there is no option but for dependence on them, then anything can happen," he added. "They can just turn off the tap."   He blames cheap Chinese imports for India's weak manufacturing base, while pointing out that local production of solar cells and modules has more than tripled in the last two years.   India could build the capacity to produce all the solar components it needs within 18 months, he added.   India isn't alone in fighting China's solar exports. In late January, the Trump administration imposed tariffs of up to 30% on solar panels from overseas, a move that China slammed as "an abuse" of US trade measures.   Sunil Rathi, director of sales at Waaree Energies, said erecting barriers to Chinese imports would create a level playing field that could eventually allow India to rival China as an exporter of solar equipment.   "Why does the world have to only go to China? It can come to India also," he said. "We can be another promising destination for the world."   Higher trade barriers will force Chinese and Malaysian firms to move their manufacturing to India, Rathi added.   Jupiter Solar CEO Sharma argues that strengthening Indian manufacturers will give the Indian government a better chance of achieving its challenging targets -- without being subject to the whims of China.   "A flourishing ecosystem in the country would enable the targets to be met, whereas total dependence on China will always make us vulnerable," he said.   "Have a leap of faith, don't worry about that target not being met. Even if it doesn't get met by 5% or 10%, what difference does it make?"   -- Edwin Thomas contributed to this report   US monthly deficit largest in 6 years
New Treasury Department numbers show that the US government racked up a $215 billion deficit in February -- the largest monthly deficit in six years. It was also $23 billion higher than the deficit for the same month last year.   Deficits are a measure of the gulf between what the government spends and what it collects in revenue.   Last month, the federal government spent roughly $371 billion, up $7 billion from February 2017. Tax receipts, meanwhile, fell to $156 billion from $172 billion a year earlier.   Interest payments on the nation's debt, Social Security and Medicare, and outlays by the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Defense, are the areas where spending has gone up the most, according to the Congressional Budget Office.   The CBO attributed the drop in revenue to higher tax refunds and a reduction in income and payroll tax withholding in the wake of the tax cuts that went into effect on January 1.   For the first five months of this fiscal year, which began on October 1, the country's deficit totaled $391 billion, which is $40 billion higher than the same period last year.   For the full fiscal year, Treasury now projects the annual deficit will near $833 billion, and then $984 billion in fiscal 2019.   The climb back to trillion dollar deficits — a hallmark of the financial crisis — has been hastened by policies put into place in the past several months.   Given the cost of the tax overhaul, a recent spending deal passed by Congress and other legislation, the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget estimates that the country next year will start booking trillion dollar deficits permanently absent policy changes.   It was less than a year ago the CBO was projecting deficits wouldn't cross the $1 trillion threshold until 2022.  Sharp drop in international student visas worries some US colleges
A sharp decline in the number of international student visas has many of America's colleges and universities on edge -- and some say the Trump administration's tough stance on immigration might be partly to blame. The number of F-1 visas issued to foreign students seeking to attend college and other types of academic institutions in the United States decreased by 17% in the year that ended September 30, 2017, according to recent State Department data.   "The current administration's 'America First' mantra is causing [international students] a great deal of anxiety and fear," said Earl Johnson, vice president of enrollment and student services at the University of Tulsa in Oklahoma. "Also, the cost of college tuition, on average, has gone up 40% in the last 10 years. It's weighing on them."   That's bad news for schools that have large international student populations. Nearly 20% of the University of Tulsa's 4,400 enrolled students hail from overseas.   Johnson said his school has experienced declines in international enrollment for a few years now and it is starting to hurt revenue. The university has even placed a school official in China to recruit more students from overseas.     F-1 visa approvals were trending higher for nearly a decade when they peaked at more than 600,000 in 2015. But they have dropped off dramatically since.   The United States issued a total of 393,573 F-1 visas in fiscal 2017, down from 471,728 in 2016. The government did not release the total number of F-1 visa applications it receives in a given year or how many applications were rejected.   The biggest decline in visa approvals in 2017 was seen among students from Asian countries, particularly those from China and India which typically account for the largest number of F-1 visas.   A number of factors could be driving the declines, said Allan Goodman, president of the nonprofit Institute of International Education.   While students are evaluating the cost of studying in the US versus somewhere else, they are also tuning in to the political rhetoric on immigration. "Inevitably, it does lead them to ask, 'Will I be welcome here?" said Goodman.   But there are other factors that are also playing a role, he said. In China specifically, a 2014 change in visa policy allows Chinese students to obtain an F-1 visa for a five-year period instead of one, freeing them from having to renew their visa each year. That change alone could contribute to the recent declines, said Goodman.   Worldwide competition for international students is also heating up, he said. The United States used to account for almost half of all international students worldwide. Now about 24% of all international students come here, said Goodman.   Instead, they are going to countries like Canada, Germany and Australia, which are making it easier for international students to stay in the country after they graduate and become part of the workforce.   Meanwhile in the United States, the government's tougher stance on its popular H-1B foreign work visa, a common visa pathway for highly-skilled foreign workers, is making it harder for new graduates to remain in the country and could be deterring overseas students from applying to American colleges.   While neither the law nor any regulations regarding foreign student visas have changed, the State Department said it has revised its guidance to US consulates that review and approve the applications. The agency said it now emphasizes that the consulates "must refuse" any applicants if they are "not satisfied that the applicant's present intent is to depart the United States at the conclusion of his or her study."   "We believe that studying in the U.S. continues to provide the best educational opportunities in the world, introduces international students to networks that provide benefits and advantages well after their studies conclude, and gives graduates a life-long connection to the U.S," a State Department official said.   "Having international students benefits the United States in many areas, in science and technology, even the number of Nobel laureates we produce," said Goodman.   And international students add diversity to the classroom, he added. "Most Americans don't study abroad. At the very least, they get a sense of the outside world from the eight to 10 different nationalities in their classroom," he said.   "It's a fairly uncertain time for all higher education institutions in the US," Johnson said. "Right now we feel the glass is half full. We are seeing a greater number of started applications from students overseas, but we have to wait and see how many complete their applications for the fall."  What is the WTO, and how does it work? Here's what you should know
Next stop: Geneva? Now that President Trump's tariffs on steel and aluminum are official, America's trading partners are threatening to take their grievances to the World Trade Organization. You might wonder why a distant international body has a say in US decisions on imports and exports.   Here's a primer on the WTO, and how it's linked to the current trade fight.   What is the WTO?   The WTO is the center of the global trading system.   Made up of and governed by member nations, the WTO administers the network of international trade rules currently in place. It serves as a place to negotiate changes to existing agreements and, when issues come up, for member countries to mediate any disputes.   Who's in the WTO?   About 160 countries belong to the WTO, including the United States, the UK, Germany, Brazil, South Korea, Japan, Canada and Mexico.   China joined the WTO in 2001. This was a major moment in China's journey to becoming a global trade powerhouse, and accompanied the country's decision to open its markets to more foreign goods and investment.   Russia became the world's last major economy to join the WTO when it became a member in 2012.   How long has it been around?   The World Trade Organization can trace its roots back to end of World War II.   In 1947, 23 nations came together to sign the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT. It went into effect in 1948.   The rules established in GATT governed international trade during the second half of the 20th century. It eventually was subsumed by the WTO, which was formally established in Geneva, Switzerland in 1995.   The WTO's authority is broader than GATT, which only pertains to trading goods. The WTO also monitors the exchange of services, as well as intellectual property.   What does Trump think about the WTO?   The United States was a key architect of the system governed by GATT and the WTO.   But Trump has been critical of the institution.   "The WTO has been a disaster for this country," Trump said last week at a listening session with steel and aluminum executives.   He went on to say that China's economic rise coincided with when it joined the WTO.   "It has been great for China and terrible for the United States, and great for other countries," Trump said.   Do Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs violate WTO rules?   That's the big question. There are a few thorny legal issues baked into the 25% tariff on steel imports and the 10% tariff on aluminum imports, both of which go into effect in less than two weeks.   First, there's the fact that the Trump administration is implementing the tariffs by arguing that they're necessary to protect national security.   While WTO rules do allow countries to act to protect their "essential security interests" in a time of war or emergency in international relations, foreign countries have questioned whether that applies here. Critics say Trump's decision was clearly motivated by a desire to shore up domestic industries, and that the national security justification is nothing more than a guise.   Another issue is the exemption that the United States granted to Canada and Mexico. Under WTO rules, countries typically can't grant special favor to certain trading partners over others.   If the tariffs are illegal, what can the WTO do?   Nothing on its own. A member country, or a bloc like the European Union, would need to file a complaint, kicking off the WTO's dispute resolution process.   So far, no country has filed a formal complaint against the United States over the new steel and aluminum tariffs. But it's definitely on the table.   What would the complaint process look like?   The process generally takes about 18 months, according to the WTO.   The case first goes before a panel, which makes an initial ruling. That ruling can be appealed by either side. Oftentimes, both countries end up coming to a settlement agreement on their own.   If the WTO rules against the United States, it could then authorize the complaining nation to retaliate proportionally.   Experts are divided on how the WTO would come down on this.   "I think the judges at the WTO would say this isn't a real security [issue]," said Joel Trachtman, an international law professor at Tufts University. The president has made clear his main focus is jobs, he added.   Petros Mavroidis, who specializes in WTO law at Columbia Law School, said he believes it would be difficult for a panel of judges to question how a country interprets its own national security interests.   "My view is that they will have a very hard time second guessing the US," he said.   Do countries have any options outside the WTO?   Sure. Affected countries will want to act quickly, and the WTO process is decidedly slow.   The European Union has threatened to go about "rebalancing" the trade situation by putting its own tariffs on bourbon, motorcycles and blue jeans. It claims such a move would be legal under WTO rules.   The goal would be to send a message to American manufacturers like Jack Daniel's, Harley-Davidson and Levi's — which would then put pressure on the US government to back down.   But that runs the risk of kicking off a string of tit-for-tat responses that could culminate in a trade war.   There's also fear that other countries could choose to retaliate unilaterally against the United States, outside the aegis of the WTO.   That could undermine faith in the entire global trading system.   "It would weaken the institution's legitimacy if everyone seeks to end run the WTO rules," said Mark Wu, a professor of international trade law at Harvard Law School.  Moms still earn less than childless women -- and the gap isn't closing
Joya Misra, a sociology professor at the University of Massachusetts, has a simple piece of advice for her female graduate students pursuing a career in academia. "There's no reason for you in any way to indicate you're a mother," Misra tells them. "I want you to get the job."   The reason: There's a longstanding gap between the wages of mothers and those of childless women.   According to new research co-authored by Misra and two economists, that gap hasn't narrowed at all since the 1980s. And for some women, it's even increased.   The study found that when correcting for education, occupation and work experience, the pay gap for mothers with one child rose from 9% in the period between 1986 and 1995 to 15% between 2006 and 2014. For mothers with two kids, the gap held steady at 13% and stayed at 20% for mothers with three or more children.   The paper draws upon the University of Michigan's Panel Study of Income Dynamics, which has tracked about 18,000 individuals from 5,000 families since it began in 1968, making it an unusually powerful tool to measure how wages respond to demographics and life events.   The "motherhood penalty," as it's been called, helps to explain why women overall make 81 cents on every dollar a man makes. Conversely, research has shown that having children actually raises wages for men, even when correcting for the number of hours they work.   Why hasn't the discrepancy eased, even as the share of mothers with young kids working has risen from 47% in 1975 to 70% in 2015?   The researchers point to a lack of progress on family-friendly policies in the United States, such as paid parental leave and subsidized childcare. Other countries, including Sweden, have narrowed their gender pay gaps after instituting such laws.   "It's really, really, really clear," says Misra, who has studied the policies different countries use to support mothers. "Universal subsidized childcare has the most important effect on reducing the motherhood penalty."   It's an issue confronting human resource managers, too. When it comes to handing out raises or promotions, they must decide how to treat the time off that women take after having a child.   "We're absolutely convinced that a significant part of that is women having to make choices in their childbearing years," says Society for Human Resources Management CEO Johnny Taylor, on the motherhood penalty. Mandating that employers provide paid parental leave would help, he says, but it won't stop employers from treating women differently for taking the time they need off after giving birth.   He offered the example of a law firm. "You're a female associate," Taylor says. "Should you be considered for partnership at the end of your seven years, when you took nine months off? We're trying to solve for that."   Of course, punishing anyone for having family responsibilities is illegal. Lawsuits charging discrimination on that basis have skyrocketed in recent years, according to a 2016 report by the Center for Worklife Law at Hastings College of the Law.   But the total number of cases remains small, and Misra says that the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission doesn't have enough money to proactively police the issue.   "If they had many more investigators, workplaces would tighten up more than they have," Misra says. "What they primarily have learned is what to say and not say in order to be within the law, rather than how to actually not discriminate."  Trump loses two free trade advocates in one week
Two top free trade advocates have left the Trump administration in one week — just as fear of a trade war ramps up. The departures of Gary Cohn as chief economic adviser and Rex Tillerson as secretary of state come as the president prepares to impose sweeping tariffs on steel and aluminum next week.   Cohn, a former Wall Street executive at Goldman Sachs, resigned last week because he was opposed to the tariffs.   Tillerson was a moderate voice on NAFTA, the trade pact with Canada and Mexico that has been under renegotiation since August. NAFTA talks are at a critical point: Trump says if progress isn't made, he will withdraw from NAFTA or extend the tariffs to Mexico and Canada, which have so far been excluded.   "Tillerson was a steady hand. ... He seemed to be a voice of reason," says Chris Gaffney, president of world markets at Everbank, a firm based in Florida. "That's what is scaring the markets a bit — if we get protectionist people."   Trump's tariff plans spooked the markets: The Dow dropped 420 points on the day he made the announcement. Cohn's resignation five days later also caused markets to dip.   JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said Tuesday that Cohn's departure was a "loss because he's knowledgeable about economics around the world." Dimon called Tillerson "hugely competent."   As Cohn and Tillerson leave, Trump has promoted Peter Navarro, a longtime trade hawk who favors tariffs. Trump also appointed U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, another free trade critic, to be the point of contact for nations seeking tariff exemptions.   Several leaders, from the European Union to Brazil to China, have hinted or explicitly said they will retaliate against the American tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. That rhetoric has stoked fears of a trade war.   Like Trump, Lighthizer, who is leading the negotiations with Canada and Mexico, has been bluntly critical of NAFTA.   "For countless Americans, this agreement has failed," he said in August.   Tillerson, like Cohn, had used more moderate language.   "I understand how important NAFTA is for our economy," he said in a speech in early February, adding that NAFTA just needs to be "modernized."   Concerns that a protectionist wing will dominate the White House may be overdone. Many trade experts say the fate of Trump's trade agenda rests to a large degree on whom he anoints as his next economic adviser.   Trump said Tuesday he's leaning toward hiring Larry Kudlow, a longtime free trade advocate, as his next economic adviser. And Tillerson's replacement, CIA Director Mike Pompeo, was once a congressman from Kansas, a state that depends heavily on trade with Mexico and Canada.   Some trade economists say the changing of the guard is healthy. Trump didn't listen much to Tillerson and Cohn on trade. They argue that perhaps Kudlow, a longtime friend of Trump's, can talk Trump out of his most extreme trade threats.   "We really have nowhere to go but up," says Phil Levy, senior fellow at the Chicago Council for Global Affairs and a White House economist in the George W. Bush administration. "You need to have voices that can tell the president just what the costs of these actions will be. And you need to have voices that he'll find credible."  One idea to stop Venezuela's downward spiral: Switch to the US dollar
Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, lost nearly all its value last year as the country spiraled into an economic crisis. One solution gaining popularity: Get rid of the bolivar and replace it with the US dollar.   The idea is called dollarization. Ecuador, El Salvador and some small island nations have done it. Now it could be coming to Venezuela, widely considered the world's worst economy not mired in an armed conflict.   Venezuela has a presidential election this spring, and Henri Falcon is seen as the top opposition candidate to the incumbent, Nicolas Maduro. Francisco Rodriguez, a former Wall Street economist who advises Falcon, says he would shift the nation to the dollar to cure its biggest problem, soaring inflation.     Prices are rising much faster than wages. Venezuelans are going hungry and hospitals are ill-equipped because of widespread shortages of medicine and food. The average Venezuelan living in poverty last year lost 25 pounds, according to a recently published study.   That problem is likely to get worse: The International Monetary Fund projects prices will rise 13,000% this year.   Some experts say Venezuela must move to the dollar before it can solve all its other problems, which include rampant crime and a mass exodus of its citizens.   "There's no way they can get anything under control in Venezuela unless they dollarize," says Steven Hanke, a professor at Johns Hopkins University who advised the governments of Ecuador and Montenegro when they ditched their currencies for the dollar. "The bolivar is gone already."   Here's how it would work. The government would establish a temporary exchange rate for its citizens to swap bolivars for dollars.   Venezuela would have to agree to get its printed cash only from the US Federal Reserve. Governments forfeit the right to print their own money when they convert to the dollar.   Venezuela wouldn't be able to order the Fed to print endless amounts of cash, either. By taking on the dollar — the exchange rate for which is controlled by foreign markets — leaders would effectively have to commit to reel in spending.   To pay for cash shipments from the Fed, Venezuela would still have to make money on its exports, such as oil, and collect taxes. Experts say the transition would be easier for Venezuela than other nations because its only source of meaningful income is oil, which is bought and sold only in dollars.   If he stays in power, Maduro seems unlikely to swap the bolivar for the dollar. His government spends at will and blasts US capitalism.   As for Falcon, Maduro's top opponent, his team says Venezuelans would be able to exchange 68 bolivars for one dollar. Some economists say it's soon to place an exact number on what the exchange rate would be. The current, unofficial exchange rate that millions of Venezuelans use everyday is about 216,000 bolivars for one dollar.   Some economists say countries give up too much control over their own currency when they adopt the dollar. Another option would be for a new government to introduce an entirely new currency along with a plan to rein in federal spending.   "Dollarization is a solution, but it's not the optimal solution," says Jean Paul Leidenz, senior economist at Ecoanalitica, a Venezuela-based research group. "It's an extreme measure."   Although unlikely to dollarize, Maduro isn't entirely opposed to a new currency in principle. His government recently created the world's first sovereign cryptocurrency, the petro. It remains unclear how successful the petro was in private auctions.   The Maduro regime's spending spree — on subsidies, free housing, wage hikes and much more — has badly damaged the economy, says Raul Gallegos, a Bogota-based consultant at the global advisory firm Control Risks.   "Dollarization is essentially when you chop off your left arm to prevent gangrene from killing you," he says.   A move to the dollar is likely only if Falcon defeats Maduro in May, and that is uncertain. Some opposition parties have boycotted the election, claiming Maduro will rig it. Maduro has also banned some of his top opponents from running for office.   The Trump administration, along with many other governments, labels Maduro a dictator. Last July, Maduro's party replaced the opposition-backed legislature with an entirely new legislature filled with his supporters.   Against that backdrop, outside experts question whether this election will be fair.   Rodriguez, the lead economic adviser for Falcon, did not respond to a request for comment. A Venezuelan TV anchor and Maduro supporter recently asked him whether adopting the dollar would sacrifice Venezuela's sovereignty.   "You can't talk about sovereignty when you have a destroyed economy," Rodriguez said.  Don't applaud the drop in black unemployment just yet
Margaret C. Simms is an economist and institute fellow in the Center on Labor, Human Services, and Population at the Urban Institute, where she directs the Low-Income Working Families initiative. The opinions expressed in this article are her own. At first glance, last week's jobs report seemed very upbeat.   The overall unemployment rate in February stayed at 4.1%, the lowest it's been in 17 years, according to the Labor Department's report.   And there were other near-record lows: Black unemployment ticked down to 6.9%, just slightly higher than the record hit in December.   Particularly noteworthy was the unemployment rate for adult black men, which at 5.9% is one-third of what it was at the height of Great Recession and more than one percentage point lower than it was a year ago.   Do the latest figures mean we should stop worrying about the plight of black workers? Before we applaud this decline, we should look behind the numbers.   What is driving the job gains by black men?   In the past year, the economy has added about 2.7 million jobs, with a significant portion of them in industries such as construction, transportation and warehousing.   These industries tend to be male dominated, so it's not surprising that employment among men overall increased significantly over the past year.   But what is noteworthy is that adult black men appear to have gotten about 19% of the new jobs even though they only account for about 6% of the civilian labor force.   Do these numbers represent some historic record?    The unemployment rate for black workers, viewed by some as "the lowest rate ever," is still nearly double what it is for white job seekers. And it's just one measure of the employment situation.   While we should applaud the fact that most people who are actively looking for work seemed to find jobs, a better measure of job-holding is the share of the working-age population that is employed. This measure, called the employment to population ratio, adjusts for the fact that some people may not be looking for work because they don't think it is available and have therefore withdrawn from the labor force.   It also accounts for people who have "retired" early after losing a position and not getting another one. If we look at the share of working-age black men and women who were employed over the past year, versus over the past 10 years, our applause would be more muted.   The proportion of black men ages 20 and older that is employed today — about 65% — is virtually the same as the proportion employed 10 years ago, although up 2.5 percentage points from February 2017.   The story is very similar for black working age women, though their rate hovers around 59%.   What does this all mean?    How then do we reconcile the declining unemployment rate for black men and women with the fact that there has been almost no gain in the proportion of that population who now have jobs?   The answer partially lies in the way the unemployment rate is calculated. Since it is based on the number of people who have jobs or are actively seeking work, the unemployment rate can fluctuate based on whether people think jobs are available and decide to search for one. Herein lies part of the paradox.   It turns out that men's labor force participation has been dropping over the past decade, and the economic recovery has not lured all of them back into the workforce.   The labor force participation rate for white men dropped about 4 percentage points between 2008 and 2018 while the rate for black men dropped more than 3 percentage points, staying consistently below white men's.   With fewer people looking for work, it makes sense that those who are actively looking are now finding more success. But that doesn't mean those who are not looking are well off.   Do these numbers hold up?   Finally, it is necessary to ask: Is the unemployment rate valid? This is not a question of whether the Labor Department produces unbiased estimates. They do, but the numbers are just that — estimates — based on samples of the population.   In the case of small samples, which would be the case for black workers, the numbers can jump around from month-to-month. And you see this in the numbers for black workers.   If you look at their unemployment rate over the past four months, it has moved from 7.2% in November to 6.8% in the following month, then 7.7% in January, then 6.9%. The numbers for specifically black men had slightly wider swings.   So don't celebrate the decline in black unemployment just yet. To see if black workers are truly a lot better off, we will have to wait and see if the low numbers hold up over the coming months.  The gender pay gap for women doctors is big -- and getting worse
They also attended medical school and underwent the same years of rigorous training, but female doctors in the United States are earning significantly less than their male peers -- and the pay gap is only growing wider. Women doctors earned an average of 27.7% less than their male counterparts in 2017, according to a new survey of 65,000 physicians by Doximity, a social networking platform for health care professionals.   That's an average of $105,000 less a year.   "The gender pay disparity is disappointing and it's a serious issue that we want to rectify," said Dr. Amit Phull, Doximity's vice president of strategy and insights.   Doximity's second annual report found that physician compensation rose 4% year-over-year, which was faster than the national wage growth of 2.6%. But gender disparity in pay persisted in a striking way.   The pay gap had widened from the prior year, when Doximity found women physicians were making an average of 26.5% less than men. And the researchers reported that the inequities persisted across all 40 medical specialties and 50 metropolitan areas that it analyzed.   The gender pay gap was most pronounced in Charleston, South Carolina, where women doctors earned 37%, or $134,499, less than male doctors, last year. That was followed by Kansas City, Missouri, where the gap was 32%, or $131,996. The report did not explain why the disparity was more glaring in these cities.   "Unlike other industries, the medical profession doesn't openly reveal or discuss salaries," said Phull. "If physicians know how much their peers are making, it will give them better leverage to negotiate their pay. We want this report to provide some transparency."   According to the report, specialties with the largest pay gaps of about 20% included hematology, occupational medicine and urology. The fields with the smallest wage disparity, such as in pediatric cardiology and geriatrics, still saw female doctors earning 15% less than male doctors.   "Even with the wage gap, medical specialists do earn much more than many other professions. But doctors also spend many years in training and incur significant school debt by the time they start practicing. And we never come off the clock," noted Kim Templeton, a professor of orthopedic surgery at the University of Kansas Medical Center in Kansas City.   The average medical school debt in 2016, for example, was about $190,000, according to the Association of American Medical Colleges.   Once a year, Dr. Theresa Rohr-Kirchgraber, an associate professor of internal medicine and pediatrics at Indiana University School of Medicine, holds a class called Negotiating the Pay Divide to raise awareness about the medical field's pay gap.   "In my career as a physician, I know I have been paid less than male colleagues. No friggin' way I should be, but I am," she said. "There's this perception that's persisted, and I don't know why, that women don't need as much. It's not just in medicine, but across industries."   She wants women physicians to become proactive about negotiating salaries. "Closing this pay gap isn't just about getting extra income. It's about eliminating an unconscious bias that exists in medicine," she said.   "Some people have said women doctors don't see as many patients as male doctors because they have other responsibilities at home with kids. That's why they make less," said Templeton. "Decades later, the assumption is that [male doctors] should make more because they are taking care of the family."   Templeton believes income should be based on expertise and qualifications, not assumptions. "As far as medical training goes, it is the same for both genders."   "Medical students aren't taught how to negotiate salaries. But it's vital for them, especially for women, to learn this skill," said Dr. Fatima Stanford, who specializes in obesity medicine and nutrition at the Massachusetts General Hospital and is on faculty at Harvard Medical School.   If the pay gap continues to widen, less pay combined with physician burnout might lead to more female doctors leaving the profession, she said.   "I've seen this shift happening with my friends. They are leaving medicine for the pharmaceutical industry, business and other industries where they feel they are better respected and compensated," said Stanford. " At a time when we have a looming doctor shortage in America, we really don't want it to get worse."  For gig economy workers in these states, rights are at risk
Should gig economy workers, such as Uber drivers and Taskrabbits, be entitled to the same rights and benefits as regular employees? Currently they aren't. And many of the online apps and platforms that offer the goods and services these workers provide would like to keep it that way. That frees these companies from having to offer benefits, pay a host of taxes and abide by certain labor laws.   Leading the charge is New York-based Handy, an online platform that connects users with home service providers ranging from plumbers to house cleaners. The company has put bills in front of eight state legislatures this year that would permanently classify most gig workers as independent contractors. All eight bills have passed at least the house or senate in each state and appear likely to be signed into law soon.   Defining gig workers as independent contractors will give platform companies the certainty that their business model will hold up to legal scrutiny, Handy argues.   Over the years, many platform companies — including Handy — have been sued for allegedly misclassifying workers as independent contractors. The legal outcomes have been mixed, with many cases settling before a verdict was reached, or awaiting a Supreme Court decision on whether the arbitration agreements most workers signed can be enforced.   The state laws would prevent such lawsuits in the future by wiping away many of the criteria that usually establish an employer-employee relationship. But labor advocates worry the laws will erode the benefits and protections to which workers should be entitled.   Currently, the distinction between a contractor and an employee hinges on the idea of control. Telling a worker when and how to perform a job, providing training or supplies, monitoring their activity and determining the rate of pay are all factors that would support a finding that the worker is an employee.   The laws Handy is trying to get passed by the states would enable employers to do many of those things without having to call the worker an employee. That frees them from having to pay workers' compensation premiums and unemployment taxes or obeying state anti-discrimination and minimum wage laws. They'll likely be off the hook for federal labor standards and Medicare and Social Security taxes as well, since federal enforcement is sparse.   "They'll be able to set wage rates, they'll be able to discipline workers, they'll be able to fire workers, they'll be able to monitor workers," explains Rebecca Smith, deputy director of the National Employment Law Project, a nonprofit worker advocacy group. "Almost everything that makes you an employer under current law, and that other employers abide by, is thrown out the window."   In previous years, Uber has won similar laws in many states that apply only to "transportation network companies," principally itself and Lyft. Handy's bills would apply to any kind of marketplace contractor, with a few exceptions carved out in certain states.   Derek Christian, the Cincinnati-based co-owner of a maid service and a handyman service, said the bills will lead existing employers to convert to a lower-cost independent contractor model in order to compete.   "It won't just be Handy, it'll be all of these virtual companies that are out there now," Christian said. That can be a raw deal for workers, who might be drawn in by a slightly higher hourly rate but then realize they will have to cover their equipment, transportation, insurance and self-employment taxes, he said.    (On its website, Handy says that it pays cleaners "up to" $22 an hour and allows them to negotiate payments. But further down in the service contract, it lists the fees it charges if the service provider cancels on short notice or doesn't show up.)   In blue states, gig economy companies have offered to provide benefits to their workers, but there's a catch. Handy pushed a bill in New York that would have allowed platforms to contribute 2.5% of each transaction to a benefits fund in exchange for a guarantee that the workers would remain independent contractors.   Unions and worker advocacy groups opposed the measure, saying it gave away too many rights and protections for workers. Similar "portable benefits" bills are currently under consideration in Washington and New Jersey, but Handy decided to move on to friendlier territory: The mostly-Republican states of Georgia, Indiana, Utah, Kentucky, Tennessee, Florida, Iowa, and Colorado.    "If starting with the harder states failed, we're taking a shot at something's that a little faster," said venture capitalist and political strategist Bradley Tusk, whose firm Tusk Ventures ran Uber's state legislative campaign and now represents Handy. "What is ultimately a better business decision? To try to change the law in a way that you think works for your platform, or to make sure your platform fits into the existing law?"   The bills have been particularly alarming for the National Domestic Workers Alliance, a national nonprofit advocacy group. Palak Shah, the organization's director of social innovations, recently went to Tennessee to caution lawmakers that the bill would permanently carve many workers out of rights to which they would be entitled as employees.   "It's just such a sorry excuse for a business model to make vulnerable workers more vulnerable just so you can tell your investors that one day you might be solvent," Shah said. "This legislation basically ensures that domestic workers online will never have protection."   Some of the bills faced resistance from organized labor, but most were offered in states where unions have been weakened in recent years by right-to-work laws and Republican electoral victories, so unions only had enough leverage to ask for small changes.   One thing is clear: The federal government likely won't stand in the way of Handy's march through the states.    Under the Obama administration, the Department of Labor pursued dozens of cases against companies that misclassified their employees as independent contractors, and issued extensive guidance outlining the distinction between the two.   Trump's pick for Labor Secretary, Alex Acosta, withdrew that guidance. And at a recent Chamber of Commerce event marketing the launch of a "new economy working group," Acosta celebrated platform companies for creating a new class of independent "entrepreneurs," and said the laws should change with the times.   "Our labor laws and regulations were designed in the era of time cards and pneumatic tools," Acosta said. "In so many areas we've updated them, but we haven't when it comes to this."  What's in the Senate banking bill
Nearly a decade after the financial crisis, the Senate advanced the most significant changes yet to the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory reform law. The bipartisan bill, crafted by Senator Mike Crapo, the top Republican on the Senate Banking Committee, passed 67-to-31 on Wednesday. It would benefit thousands of community banks and dozens of regional lenders, who argue the rules have crimped lending and held back the economy.   But the bill would reach much further. It would also loosen regulations for mortgage lenders, expand access to free credit freezes for Americans who are worried about identity theft, and change the rules for student loan defaults.   The bill still needs to be reconciled with House lawmakers before it goes to President Trump.   Here's a summary of the changes that could be in store for US banks and consumers.   Too big to fail    The bill would raise the threshold at which banks are considered too big to fail. That trigger, currently set at $50 billion in assets, would rise to $250 billion.   That would leave only a dozen US banks — including JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Wells Fargo — facing the strictest regulations by the Federal Reserve.   It would shield more than two dozen midsize banks from some Fed oversight. Institutions such as Zions Bancorp, BB&T and SunTrust would no longer be required to have plans to be safely dismantled if they fail. And they would have to take the Fed's bank health test only periodically, not once a year.   Custody banks   Two large custody banks, State Street and Bank of New York Mellon, would also be spared from a rule that forces them to hold millions of dollars of capital to protect against losses.   Custody banks draw money from hedge fund clients, not Main Street customers. They have argued that they shouldn't have to meet the same post-crisis rules as the biggest Wall Street banks.   Citigroup and other lenders have been lobbying lawmakers to broaden the exemption to win a break for themselves, too.   Although the bill doesn't offer big Wall Street banks relief, the Congressional Budget Office last week estimated there's a 50% chance that the Fed will relax the rule for Citigroup and JPMorgan after lawmakers pass the bill.   Foreign banks   The American operations of big foreign banks such as Deutsche Bank, BNP Paribas and Banco Santander won't get the reprieve they were hoping for.   A last-minute change to the bill put to rest the question of whether those banks would get the same break as small and regional US banks from annual stress tests and other requirements.   Democrats had sharply criticized the initial version of the bill for freeing foreign banks that have harmed consumers in the past.   Senator Sherrod Brown, the top Democrat on the banking panel, has repeatedly criticized the bill for providing relief to Spain's Santander, which repossessed cars from 1,100 American military service personnel.   Volcker Rule   Community banks with less than $10 billion in assets would no longer have to comply with the so-called Volcker Rule. The rule bars financial institutions from making risky bets with money that is insured by taxpayers.   Mortgage discrimination   Banks that originate 500 or fewer mortgages each year would no longer have to collect racial data on their loans.   Under a 1975 law, financial institutions are required to report the race, ethnicity and ZIP codes of borrows so regulators can make sure they aren't discriminating in lending.   What's more, banks with $10 billion or less in assets would no longer have to abide by strict mortgage underwriting standards prescribed in the 2010 law. That is as long as they don't sell the loans on their books to Wall Street.   Those underwriting standards were meant to ensure that banks only gave loans to people who could pay them back. But smaller banks found it too big a burden to comply with those rules.   The bill would also allow sellers of mobile homes to steer customers to their own lending divisions. That would help Clayton Homes, part of Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway conglomerate.   Credit freezes    The reporting agencies Equifax, Experian and TransUnion would be required to freeze and unfreeze Americans' credit reports for free. That would be a reprieve for millions of Americans whose data was exposed in the breach of Equifax, disclosed last year.   Those companies would also have to offer free credit monitoring to active-duty members of the military.   Fighting identity fraud   Banks would be able to verify the authenticity of an applicant by matching their names, dates of birth and Social Security numbers to an electronic signature. Today, banks are required to use a physical signature.   That provision is aimed at combating criminals who try to create fake identities to obtain credit.   The Social Security Administration would be required to update its system, giving financial institutions the ability to quickly validate personal data.   Student loan default    Lenders would no longer be able to declare that a student loan is in default when a co-signer dies or declares bankruptcy.   Some lenders have begun revising their student loan contracts to ensure people are not immediately placed in default in the event of a death. Similar auto defaults have left borrowers with no choice but to repay the full balance or risk ruining their credit.  Trade war would wipe out gains from tax cuts, Penn analysis says
A full-blown trade war would erase any economic benefits from the Republican tax cuts passed last year, according to an analysis by the University of Pennsylvania. The Trump administration is imposing steep tariffs on imported steel and aluminum next week. So far, only Canada and Mexico have officially been given exemptions, and Trump says even those are contingent on progress in NAFTA renegotiation talks.   China and the European Union have already said they will retaliate. But Trump administration officials say fears of a trade war are overblown. Most independent economists also don't see a full-scale trade war as the most likely outcome.   The Penn Wharton Budget Model, a research center at the university, imagined the worst case — no US imports or exports crossing borders tariff-free. The United States has free trade agreements with 20 nations. Wharton's model assumes those all disappear.   Such a trade war would make US economic output 0.9% lower than otherwise by 2027, according to the analysis. Over the same period, the tax cuts, in the best scenario, would boost output by 1.1%.   Over the longer term, the costs of a trade war would heavily outweigh the benefits of the tax cut. By 2040, the US would lose 5.3% of economic output in the worst trade-war scenario, compared with a 1.6% increase from the tax cuts, the university found.   Put another way, a full-blown trade war would cost the economy $200 billion over 10 years, and $1.4 trillion by 2040.   American wages would decline, too, falling 1.1% over the next 10 years. That may sound small, but in context it would have big ramifications.   "A trade war could lead to more than a year's worth of lost wage growth over the next decade," says Kent Smetters, director of the Budget Model and a professor at the Wharton School of Business.   Despite administration officials' contention that a trade war isn't coming, the analysis stands at odds with Trump's comment that trade wars "are good, and easy to win."   The White House did not immediately answer a request for comment.  Trade deficit isn't always a bad thing
The United States buys way more from the rest of the world than it sells. It's called the trade deficit, and it was $566 billion last year. The way President Trump sees it, America is the loser in a global trade imbalance he calls a "disaster." In Trump's worldview, trade deficits are bad.   But that's not always true.   Sometimes a trade deficit is the byproduct of a strong economy. When Americans are confident about their jobs and savings, they spend money. In a globalized economy, they increasingly spend their money on imported goods.   Yes, the nation imports more than it exports — especially manufactured goods like clothes, electronics and auto parts. But the United States is no longer just a manufacturing economy. It is a powerhouse in services, as well. Think media, finance and technology. In services, the United States ran a $244 billion trade surplus last year.   The way the president explains the trade deficit, America "lost" $566 billion. But it's not like there is one bank account, overdrawn. Trade is incredibly complex. The money that flows to other countries doesn't simply disappear. It becomes cash that in many cases has to be reinvested. And where does it go? Back to the United States, parked in Treasury bonds, stocks, real estate, factories and other investments. America imports goods, and other countries export capital in return.   On the flip side, trade surpluses are not always a good thing. The last time the United States ran a trade surplus, Gerald Ford was president and the country was in the middle of a recession. Japan had a $27 billion trade surplus last year with the rest of the world, yet its economy is stagnant. It hasn't been able to export its way out of what's known as its "lost decade" of economic growth.   The trouble with trade deficits comes when countries cheat. And here the president has a very good point.   When foreign governments steal intellectual property, that's not a level playing field. The same goes for when other countries ignore trademarks and patents, rely on cheap labor, have low environmental and safety standards, manipulate their currency to give their products a price advantage, and dump their products into foreign markets to kill competition.  Americans spend more on health care, but have shorter lives
Americans spend nearly twice as much on health care as other wealthy countries, but it's not doing much to improve their health, a new study finds. The United States has the shortest life expectancy and highest infant and maternal mortality rates among any of its peers. Steep spending on drugs and doctor's salaries are among the major drivers of the high cost of health care in the United States, according to researchers at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard Global Health Institute and the London School of Economics. But, contrary to popular belief, Americans don't use more health care than residents in other countries.   Health care spending accounted for 17.8% of the US economy in 2016, compared to an average of 11.5% in the 11 high-income countries the study examined. Americans spent $9,400 per capita on health care that year, compared to an average of $5,400 in the peer nations, which include Canada, Japan, Australia and several Western European countries.   However, health care usage in the United States was relatively similar to the other countries. Americans had lower rates of physician visits and spent fewer days in the hospital, though they had some of the highest rates for imaging tests, such as MRIs and CT scans, and some common surgical procedures, such as knee replacements, cataract surgeries and cesarean births.   Where the United States topped the charts was in prices and salaries. Per capita spending on prescription drugs was more than $1,400, compared to an average of $750 for all nations studied. For several commonly used medications, the American price was more than double what it was in the country with the next highest cost.   The average salary for a general practice physician in the United States was more than $218,000, compared to an average of nearly $134,000 in the peer nations. Specialists were paid $316,000, compared to nearly $183,000, while nurses earned more than $74,000, compared to just under $52,000.   The American health care system also spends far more on administrative costs -- coming in at 8% of total health care spending, compared to between 1% and 3% for other countries.   All this spending hasn't translated into better health for Americans. The average life expectancy in the United States is 78.8 years, compared to an average of 81.7 years for the peer nations studied.   Some states, such as Hawaii, Minnesota and Connecticut, have life expectancy rates of roughly 81 years, which is more comparable to other wealthy countries. But in Mississippi, Alabama and West Virginia, residents can only expect to live 75 years, on average.   The United States also has the highest infant mortality rate, with nearly six deaths out of 1,000 live births, compared to an average of 3.6 deaths elsewhere. The same is true of the maternal mortality rate, with more than 26 out of 100,000 women dying from birth- or pregnancy-related complications, compared to an average rate of 8.4 women in other nations.   Social factors are one of the main reasons why Americans don't live as long as their peers in other wealthy countries, said Ashish Jha, professor of global health at Harvard Chan School. The United States has a higher poverty rate, as well as a higher share of uninsured residents. And it does not provide the same level of social services -- such as food and housing assistance -- as its peers.   "We have a lot more poor people, and we do a lot less for poor people," Jha said. "We don't make the same kind of investments."   The study's authors hope their findings will help guide policy makers in their quest to lower health care costs. Curtailing spending was one of the Affordable Care Act's goals, and the Trump administration has also said it wants to reduce costs, particularly the price of prescription drugs.   In addition, the private sector is looking to curb health care outlays -- with one of the latest examples being Amazon (AMZN), Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM)'s initiative to lower the cost of health insurance for themselves and their employees.   "As the US continues to struggle with high health care spending, it is critical we make progress on curtailing these costs," said Irene Papanicolas, a visiting assistant professor at Harvard Chan School and one of the study's authors.  Interest payments on US debt could top $1 trillion
Interest payments on US debt could quadruple to an eye-popping $1.05 trillion by 2028 if current policies stay in effect. That would be 3.6% of the entire American economy, according to new estimates from the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a fiscal watchdog group.   By contrast, interest payments last year were $263 billion, or 1.4% of gross domestic product. Historically, interest spending has averaged 2% of GDP.   CRFB's estimates assume lawmakers will choose to make permanent the recent tax cuts — many of which are set to expire after 2025. It also assumes Congress extends the two-year increase in spending caps that just passed as well as other expiring legislation.   Those assumptions are not far-fetched given how difficult it's been for Republicans and Democrats to negotiate fiscal restraint while also trying to keep taxes low, invest in critical areas and pay federal benefits to seniors and veterans.   If all the recent tax cuts and spending increases are extended, interest spending could account for 14% of the entire federal budget in 2028 and amount to more money than would be spent on either defense or Medicaid.   As it is, even if Congress lets the new tax and spending policies expire as scheduled, interest costs could climb to $965 billion by 2028, the CRFB estimates. That would amount to 3.3% of GDP, a record high.   And deficits are likely to start topping $1 trillion as soon as next year.   Next month, the Congressional Budget Office, which is the official nonpartisan scorekeeper for fiscal issues, will put out its 10-year budget and economic outlook.   Its numbers are likely to be in the same ballpark as CRFB's. Just eight months ago, before the tax and spending deals passed, the CBO had estimated interest spending could hit $818 billion, or nearly 3% of GDP, by 2027 as a result of rising interest rates and growing debt.  Boeing would be on the front lines of a trade war with China
Plenty of American companies would be at risk in a trade war between the United States and China. But Boeing might be the most vulnerable. Boeing (BA) is the nation's single largest exporter, and China is a critical market for the company. The Chinese government has signaled that it would consider ordering Airbus planes instead of Boeing jets if the United States steps out of line on trade.   Boeing is "as emblematic as it gets of American manufacturing," said Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst at Teal Group. "It's the easiest place in the world to retaliate."   Shares in the aviation giant fell 2.5% on Wednesday. Reuters reported on Tuesday that President Donald Trump was considering putting tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese imports to punish China over intellectual property theft. Last week, Trump put steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.   Boeing — which declined to comment for this story — has been clear about how vital China is to its continued success.   The company said last September that it expects China to spend nearly $1.1 trillion over the next 20 years buying more than 7,200 new airplanes.   "China's fleet size is expected to grow at a pace well above the world average," said Randy Tinseth, Boeing's vice president of marketing for commercial planes. Almost 20 percent of global demand for new airplanes will be from airlines based in China.   In November, Boeing announced that it was selling 300 planes to China for $37 billion. The agreement was made with a government holding company that buys planes for state-owned carriers such as Air China and China Southern Airlines. It's not clear what portion of the sales were new.   Boeing is also currently building a facility in China where it will install interiors on single-aisle 737 jetliners.   That exposure puts Boeing in a tough spot as China weighs retaliation over recent US trade restrictions.   "In the event of a trade war, China will make a justified and necessary response," Foreign Minister Wang Yi said last week.   In a 2016 op-ed, state-run newspaper Global Times suggested that China is not afraid to take a "tit-for-tat" approach on trade, and that if necessary, "a batch of Boeing orders will be replaced by Airbus." The nationalist paper brought up the threat again in January 2018, in another editorial.   China could feel more pressure to respond depending on what actions Trump takes on IP theft, which are expected soon. The investigation by the U.S. Trade Representative looked specifically at Chinese malpractice. So the findings — and related penalties — will be difficult for China to ignore.   If China does choose Boeing as a target for retaliation, it could hit the US economy. Civilian aircraft are the top U.S. export to China, according to Chinese customs data compiled by Panjiva, a global trade research firm. The company has about 137,000 employees in the United States.   That said, halting orders of Boeing planes may not be as easy as China has implied, according to Carter Copeland, an aerospace analyst at Melius Research.   "Airbus can't just ramp up its production immediately," Copeland said. "There's not much flexibility to just switch from one manufacturer to the other."   Boeing and Airbus are already sold out through 2022 or 2023, Copeland said.   But China could decide to place fewer orders in the future.   Right now, Boeing and Airbus each have about half the market share in China, Aboulafia said. In the future, China could give the majority of its orders to Airbus in order to send a message.   "The most important thing is we're not there yet," Aboulafia said.  No, Mr. President. The US doesn't have a trade deficit with Canada
President Trump falsely claimed the United States has a trade deficit with Canada, contradicting figures from his own administration. Trump said the inaccurate statement on Wednesday at a fundraiser. The United States has a trade surplus with Canada, according to statistics from the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis, which is a part of the executive branch.   A deficit would mean the United States bought more goods and services from Canada than Canada bought from the US. Conversely, a surplus means that Canada bought more goods and services from the United States than the other way around.    A deficit or surplus does not mean one country took money from another country, as Trump often portrays the number.   Trump doubled down on the claim this morning, tweeting: "We do have a Trade Deficit with Canada, as we do with almost all countries (some of them massive). P.M. Justin Trudeau of Canada, a very good guy, doesn't like saying that Canada has a Surplus vs. the U.S.(negotiating), but they do...they almost all do...and that's how I know!"   The US had a $2.8 billion trade surplus with Canada last year. It also had surpluses with Canada in 2015 and 2016, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis figures (Page 39, Exhibit 20).     Here's how the 2017 trade deficit is calculated:   The US had a deficit of $23.2 billion last year with Canada just in goods -- everything from toys to cars.   But the US had a surplus of $25.9 billion with Canada last year in services -- everything from tourism to technology to health care.   Subtract the goods deficit from the services surplus, and you get an overall US trade surplus of $2.7 billion with Canada.   White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said Thursday that Trump was referencing just trade in goods, as opposed to goods and services.   She defended Trump by citing statistics from the Census Bureau, which uses a different formula to count imports and exports than the Bureau of Economic Analysis uses.   According to the Census Bureau, the United States ran a $17.6 billion deficit with Canada, but it counts only goods.   Trump tends to mention only the goods deficit, which is misleading. The US economy today is much more driven by services: Hospitals, universities, tech companies, banks and so on. Manufacturing, an industry Trump focuses on, makes up about 10% of US economic output.   Globally, the United States has a trade deficit and that makes sense because the US economy is driven by consumer spending. Americans spending at stores and online make up about two-thirds of US economic activity.   Many economists say the trade deficit is not the right way to measure the fairness of trade deals, the trade balance or the health of the US economy. As the economy grew last year and unemployment fell, the trade deficit got bigger. During the financial crisis a decade ago, the trade deficit shrunk.   The United States can stomach such large trade deficits because foreign companies and governments take the money they get from US buyers and often reinvest that cash in US Treasury bonds. Although the US has a trade deficit, it still remains the top place for foreign investors to park their money. Those investments help to offset the trade deficit.  It's not tariffs keeping American cars out of Japan, it's Japan itself
President Donald Trump may complain about American cars being locked out of the Japanese auto market but, experts say, that's not the case. The Japanese automotive marketplace isn't closed as much as it is, simply, already full.   Japan is dominated by one behemoth automaker, Toyota (TM). Six others, including Mitsubishi, Honda (HMC) and Nissan (NSANF), are battling each other for what market share is left. Meanwhile, car sales have been declining over the long term.   John R. Harris is a Canadian who has been living in Japan for decades, spending much of that time as a speech writer for top auto executives there. He compared the Japanese automotive market to trench warfare. Automakers are dug in, trying to hold on to what they have, while pummeling one another for fractions of a percentage point in market share.   The American Automotive Policy Council, a group representing US-based automakers, has complained in the past about arcane rules that tend to prevent non-Japanese automakers from competing there.   But, independent experts say, when it comes to selling cars in Japan, domestic automakers face as many regulatory challenges as their foreign rivals.   In terms of tariffs, Japan has none, while the US does apply tariffs to cars brought into the US from Japan.   The AAPC did not respond to requests for comment on the alleged Japanese obstructionism.   The biggest challenge faced by American auto brands in Japan is an outdated perception of quality, said Hans Greimel, a Tokyo-based reporter for industry newspaper Automotive News.   "The image of American cars is that kind of 1970s floating boat image," he said, "where the fit and finish is wrong, they guzzle gas and the cars are too big for the streets."   Volkswagen is one foreign brand that sells well in Japan, probably because it makes small cars that are considered to be of high quality, said Harris. German luxury brands like  Mercedes-Benz  (DMLRY)and BMW also sell well there, according to data from LMC Automotive.   A significant of portion of sales made by domestic Japanese automakers are for kei cars -- pint-sized peculiarities of the Japanese auto market. These cars are about two feet feet shorter, end to end, than a Honda Fit or Toyota Yaris, and they are powered by engines that produce, at most, 63 horsepower.   Japanese regulations make kei cars less expensive and easier to buy and own than a standard automobile. They represent over a third of all cars sold in Japan but no non-Japanese automakers offer them. There's little incentive to since the cars can only be sold in Japan and the potential profits, if there are any at all, are likely as tiny as the cars themselves.   The Japanese market was blocked off to foreign rivals during the decades after World War II, said Grant Faulkner, vice president for business with LMC Automotive, an industry consulting firm.   "By the time the Japanese reopened their markets in the '70s Japanese consumers were already pretty comfortable buying Japanese brands," he said.   Another factor is the generally conservative and conformist attitude of most Japanese auto buyers, he said.   "You don't want to be the first guy on your street who's driving a Chevy," he said.   Of course, there are those who want to buck the conformist trend, he said. That means that, ironically, the American models that tend to do best are those that really stand.   For instance, there's Fiat Chrysler Automobiles' (FCAU) Jeep brand. Jeep is helped by two big factors, said Greimel. For one thing, it offers a unique and desirable image not matched by any Japanese automaker.   "Jeep is something completely American," he said, "but in a good way."   Also, Jeep offers its vehicles with the steering wheel on the right-hand side. As in England, drivers in Japan travel on the left-hand side of the road. So automakers that sell right-hand drive cars will do better there.   "Japan is a tough market to crack," he said, "but those that are determined to do it and have the brand power to do it manage to find a way."  China is cutting its huge stash of US debt
America's biggest foreign creditor is tightening its belt. China's holdings of US government debt fell to a six-month low of $1.17 trillion in January, according to Treasury Department data published Thursday.   The country remains the top foreign holder of US Treasury debt -- a position its held for most of the last decade -- but its move to reduce its investments comes amid rising trade tensions between the world's two biggest economies.   China spent most of 2017 gobbling up more US debt. Its holdings of treasuries rose 13% during that year.   But in January, Bloomberg reported that China was looking to cut back on the amount of U.S. government debt it buys, citing unidentified sources. The report, which rattled markets, was denied by Chinese authorities.   "US treasuries are often used as a carrot during the political ping-pong match when trade tensions escalate," said Stephen Innes, head of Asia Pacific trading at investment firm Oanda.   The data published Thursday only cover the period through the end of January, so they don't include the most recent bout of trade tensions, such as President Donald Trump's recent decision to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. In January, Trump slapped import tariffs on foreign solar panels and washers, in a move widely interpreted as a broadside against China.   The US trade deficit in goods with China hit $375 billion last year, according to the Commerce Department, the largest with any trading partner. President Trump has been vocal about slashing that deficit.   Innes added that it would make sense for China to gradually reduce its holdings, given the US dollar has weakened by about 10% in the last year.   Ken Cheung, a currency strategist at Mizuho Bank in Hong Kong, thinks China will continue to slowly ween itself off US treasuries during 2018, but investors shouldn't expect a fire sale.   China "unwinding its US treasury holdings aggressively due to trade tensions remains unlikely," he added. Selling its holdings too quickly would cause the value of its remaining portfolio to fall, Cheung said, which China is eager to avoid.   The second-biggest foreign investor in US government debt is Japan, whose holdings inched up slightly to $1.07 trillion in January.  Europe reveals long list of US exports it could hit
The European Union has published a list of hundreds of American products that it could target if President Donald Trump moves forward with new tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. The list of potential targets for retaliation runs to 10 pages and includes US cigarettes, sweetcorn, ovens, sailboats, lipstick and stainless steel sinks.   Europe had previously threatened tariffs on American denim, peanut butter, cranberries, orange juice, bourbon and motorcycles. Those products also appear on the new, expanded list.   US exports worth €6.4 billion ($7.9 billion) are in the firing line. That's equal to the value of steel and aluminum shipped each year from the European Union to the United States.   The list is divided into two categories: US products that face immediate retaliation, and others that would be hit if the World Trade Organization rules the US tariffs illegal or three years pass. The European Union would apply tariffs of up to 25% on the first group.   The stakes in a trade war are high, and EU officials say they would rather have an exemption from the US tariffs. The United States and European Union trade just over €1 trillion ($1.3 trillion) in goods and services each year.   The European Union has invited people who could be affected by Trump's tariffs, and the proposed retaliation, to provide their views about the impact on business.   European Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström said last week the EU response to US tariffs on foreign steel and imported aluminum would be "proportionate" and comply with World Trade Organization rules.   She described the US metal tariffs as "deeply unjust" and a threat to European workers.     With tensions running high between the United States and European Union, analysts have warned that the spat could devolve into a tit-for-tat trade war that would damage economic growth and cause prices to rise.   Trump previously threatened to respond to any new EU trade barriers with a tax on vehicles made by European carmakers.   The European Union consistently runs an overall trade surplus with the United States, according to data from the European Commission. The gap is bigger for goods than services.   The 28 nations in the European Union produce 10% of the world's steel. EU trade officials are worried that jobs would be at risk if steel that would have otherwise been sold in the United States is diverted to Europe, pushing down prices.     The United States is the world's top steel importer. The value of steel shipped into the country was just over $29 billion in 2017.   China, which produces roughly half of the world's steel, has in the past been accused of dumping the metal on other markets, pushing down prices, forcing rivals out of business and killing thousands of jobs.   -- CNN's Chris Liakos contributed to this report.  10 years after the financial crisis, have we learned anything? 
When John Taylor starts remembering the years leading up to the financial crisis, his fury wells up all over again. As president of the nonprofit National Community Reinvestment Coalition, he warned Congress about the predatory and fraudulent lending that was fueling a housing bubble as early as 2000. Lawmakers told the Federal Reserve to write rules that would have put a stop to the worst practices. But the crash came first.   "Thinking about it now, I can feel myself being angry about it," says Taylor, in a soft accent left over from his upbringing in the housing projects of Boston. "Because we fought when we saw these things happening. We brought it to the attention of both Democrats and Republicans. In the end, it took the nation's economy having to collapse before they felt the need to do something."   The crisis unofficially began a decade ago today, with JPMorgan's shocking deal to rescue Bear Stearns for $2 a share after the investment bank suffered deep losses tied to its mortgage investments. Bear was the first major investment bank to fail, but it would not be the last.   Now, with a buoyant economy finally starting to lift some of the United States' most depressed pockets, CNNMoney is taking a look back at the 10 years following the financial meltdown that stretched around the globe — and signs that something similar might again be on the horizon, as Congress and regulators begin to loosen some of the rules they put in place to fix and prevent the problems.   "We're sitting here, 10 years later, with a short-term memory that doesn't seem to recall how we got into that mess," Taylor says. "We got into that mess because of the lack of regulation, and now we're talking about making banks less accountable. It makes no sense whatsoever."   The scars that remain   Of course, America has come a long way since the government had to step in to save the banking system from going under. Corporate profits are at record highs, the unemployment rate is at a 17-year low and the stock market has quadrupled in value since its Recession-era nadir in 2009.   But this is still a changed country. By many metrics, and for millions of Americans, the recovery has yet to arrive.   Take the homeownership rate, for example: Only in 2017 did it stop its long downward slide, after private equity investors bought hundreds of thousands of foreclosed homes and rented them back to their former owners, many of whom saw their credit so badly damaged that they can never buy again.   Male workforce participation is still nearly as low as it's ever been, since blue-collar professions were particularly hard hit and haven't totally bounced back.   The recovery has deepened the divide in other ways: Geographically, with big tech hubs and cities rich with natural resources booming and the Rust Belt and foreclosure capitals falling behind. And by income, with most gains going to households in the top 10% of the wage scale.     Median household net worth remains below where it stood in 1998, according to the Federal Reserve, even as households take on more debt than ever before. There's also a shortage of affordable housing, a legacy of the drought in both mortgage and construction lending that lasted long after the worst days of the recession had passed.   Memories of those difficult days seem to have faded from the public consciousness, as have the lessons we learned on how we got there in the first place.   Congress tried to answer this question when it established the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, and its 2011 autopsy of the meltdown remains excellent reading today. Its fundamental conclusion: The financial crisis was not like a freak weather event, as some bankers and regulators had claimed. Rather, it was man-made, predictable and entirely avoidable.   If only lawmakers hadn't knocked out legal guardrails in the 1990s that had kept banks small and relatively uncomplicated. If only bank CEOs had thought more critically about the complex securities they had created and traded with abandon. If only the Federal Reserve had acted to stop the flow of toxic mortgages that would rot through the core of the nation's largest financial institutions — they could have saved the global economy from disaster, the commission found.     A missed opportunity to change the system   Even as the commission's report was being drafted, however, the next chapter of the recession was unfolding.   In 2009, President Obama pushed through a stimulus package worth $787 billion in an effort to save jobs, and launched home mortgage modification programs to help those at risk of foreclosure.   A year later, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 established new oversight bodies to coordinate the alphabet soup of regulators that had avoided responsibility by acting in silos. It also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which was explicitly charged with monitoring malfeasance by lenders. It instructed financial regulators to draft new rules for derivatives, credit bureaus, mortgage appraisals, executive compensation, corporate governance and other factors that played a role in the economy's implosion.   While most agree that the financial system is safer now than it was before the crisis, there's been abundant criticism of the adequacy of the response.   Many argue that bailouts for homeowners should have been much more generous, in order to avoid more foreclosures and better stabilize neighborhoods, and that banks should have been pushed harder to lend to qualified borrowers once new safeguards were put in place.   Others faulted Obama for not punishing the executives at fault for reckless lending. Although their firms — and thus shareholders — have paid out hundreds of billions of dollars in fines, none of the people running these investment banks and mortgage lenders went to jail. The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission itself made eleven criminal referrals to the Department of Justice, and none were prosecuted. The commission's chairman Phil Angelides says the lack of action sent a message to Wall Street that consequences for individuals would be minimal.   "I believe it was a seminal failure of the Obama administration not to hold accountable the people responsible for the wrongdoing," Angelides says. "If someone robbed a 7-Eleven of $1,000, and were able to settle up by having someone else pay $50, would they do it again? Of course they would."   Banks have spent billions of dollars complying with Dodd-Frank, even while fighting the rules as they were written, contributing to long delays in implementation. As of mid-2016, 20% of the mandated rules hadn't been proposed at all.   The Treasury's independent Office of Financial Research, which Dodd-Frank established to serve as an early warning system for impending crises, has been dramatically scaled back.   More broadly, Anat Admati, a professor at Stanford's Graduate School of Business, argues that reformers missed their chance to increase transparency in the financial system and decrease the industry's dependence on debt, which could pose a risk as interest rates start to rise.   "We haven't had a major crisis and a bailout," says Admati. "But in terms of being prone to one, I'm disappointed that relatively little or not enough really changed."   Deregulation begins again   Now, after years of attempts, Republicans are poised to pass the most significant rollback of Dodd-Frank regulations since the bill was enacted, with the help of 16 DemocratIc senators who this week voted to exempt banks with less than $250 billion in assets from enhanced supervision. The bill also frees most banks from having to report lending data used to police for discrimination and weakens mortgage underwriting standards, among a host of other provisions.   Meanwhile, President Trump's picks to head federal agencies overseeing the banks have either worked for the industry, like Securities and Exchange Commission chairman Jay Clayton, or have been harsh critics of the agency they've been put in charge of, like the CFPB's acting director Mick Mulvaney. They have slowed or halted enforcement actions and rule making and imposed hiring freezes, limiting their ability to pursue fraud.   Add to all of this an exuberant market and it again brings big risks, from rising corporate debt to cyber threats that can cripple whole companies in an instant. In combination with weaker tools to address financial failures when they occur, Columbia Law professor Kathryn Judge worries that these industry-friendly regulators again won't take action when they need to.   "There's been a shift from safety to growth," Judge says. "But if you want to have a growth-oriented system, then you have to accept that there's going to be fragility. How are we going to deal with that fragility when it becomes manifest?"   A Decade Later: It's been 10 years since the financial crisis rocked America's economy. In a special yearlong series, CNNMoney will examine the causes of the crisis, how the country is still feeling its effects, and the lessons we have — and have not — learned.   Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly identified Anat Admati, who is a professor at Stanford's Graduate School of Business.   Under Trump, the US government gives many foreign deals a closer look
President Donald Trump shocked the business world this week when he shut down a major technology deal because of national security concerns. It was an unusual move. But it also fit an emerging pattern.   The US government is looking much more closely at corporate tie-ups that could give foreign companies access to sensitive technology, or the personal data of Americans.   That's evident from information coming out of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS. The secretive inter-agency panel vets certain deals that could give a foreign investor control of a US business.   "They are reviewing more deals than ever before," said Anne Salladin, an attorney at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, and a former Treasury Department counsel who advised on CFIUS matters. "No question."   CFIUS, which is chaired by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, doesn't publicly list all the cases it places under a national security review, and is usually tight-lipped about its considerations.   But people who track CFIUS activity note that it's paying extra attention to two types of deals: Those that involve certain tech products, like semiconductors, and those that involve Chinese investors.   The government increasingly views the high tech space as a place where the US needs to stay ahead in order to protect against bad foreign actors. And the United States recently identified China one of the country's biggest threats.   A record number of Chinese deals were delayed or abandoned in 2017 as parties failed to receive approval from CFIUS, according to a January report by Rhodium Group, a New York-based research firm.   The report said that CFIUS "seems to have broadened its approach for reviewing Chinese deals," and is taking state efforts to obtain certain technologies and data protection concerns into greater account.   Such concerns came up when CFIUS appraised Broadcom's $117 billion bid for Qualcomm (QCOM). The panel expressed worry that if the two chip makers merged, the United States would fall behind the Chinese in the development of 5G, the next generation of wireless technology that will be integral to the rollout of self-driving cars and smart cities.   Regulators said they had reason to believe that the company, which reincorporated in Singapore a few years ago, would prioritize short-term profits over long-term investment in 5G research.   "Given well-known U.S. national security concerns about Huawei and other Chinese telecommunications companies, a shift to Chinese dominance in 5G would have substantial national security consequences for the United States," a Treasury Department official wrote in a letter to both companies last week.   On Monday, Trump issued an order blocking the deal, claiming to have "credible evidence" that Broadcom (AVGO) and its affiliates "might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States."   The intervention by CFIUS was "very, very unusual," said Brian Fleming, an attorney at Miller & Chevalier who worked in the Justice Department's national security division under both Trump and former President Barack Obama.   The body does not normally interfere in deals that haven't been finalized by the companies themselves. Qualcomm rejected Broadcom's initial offer, but had warmed to the takeover, and was preparing to decide whether to move forward with the acquisition when the government put the process on hold.   CFIUS' involvement shows that "potentially losing ground to the Chinese in that area is viewed as a pretty significant and high-priority concern," Fleming said.   Broadcom-Qualcomm isn't the only high-profile deal to be scuttled this year as a result of CFIUS scrutiny. In January, Moneygram called off its merger with Ant Financial, an affiliate of Jack Ma's Alibaba, after the money transfer service failed to get a green light from CFIUS.   Deals with Chinese backers haven't been cut off entirely.   When Trump visited China in November, he announced more than $250 billion in deals with Chinese President Xi Jinping. One was an $84 billion plan from state-owned China Energy Investment Corp. to invest in shale gas and chemical manufacturing projects in West Virginia. Another project would invest as much as $43 billion in Alaska's energy sector.   In general, though, foreign companies — both with and without Chinese ties — now view a CFIUS review with greater apprehension than they did several years ago, Fleming said.   And CFIUS is poised to get even more powerful. A bill in Congress that would expand the authority of CFIUS has bipartisan support and the backing of top Trump administration officials (though it faces tough lobbying from businesses, according to one of its sponsors).   Daniel Rosen, a partner at Rhodium Group, said the US government needs to communicate its changing expectations so as not to chill foreign investment.   "The burden is on Washington now to redraw those lines so the commercial sector knows what the rules are," he said. " A dynamic economy is just as big a part of our national security as protecting critical sectors is."  Trade fights loom over G20 meeting in Argentina
Frictions over global trade are likely to escalate as finance chiefs of the Group of 20 nations arrive in Buenos Aires on Monday. The Trump administration's move toward protectionism looms over talks this week among the world's largest advanced and emerging economies.   Trump has already announced a tariff of 25% on foreign steel imports and 10% on imported aluminum. And he is considering additional penalties on a range of Chinese products along with a restriction in Chinese investment in the United States.   "This is a very significant moment in the G20 and elsewhere," said Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. "The US is trying to force a change in its trading relationships with the world, and every country in the G20 is going to have to decide how to respond to that."   It will be left to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to be the Trump administration's explainer-in-chief as he meets with his counterparts.   Mnuchin has defended Trump's tariff plan and has played down threats of retaliation by other nations.   "While our objective is not to get into a trade war, we are going to defend the US interests," Mnuchin said earlier this month. He said the tariffs strike the "right balance."   The secretary is already expected to meet with several partners on the sidelines of the two-day meeting, including South Korea, France, Saudi Arabia, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom, according to a senior US Treasury official.   "Mr. Mnuchin will have to do some explaining," said Edwin Truman, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics and former assistant secretary for international affairs at the Treasury Department. "The real challenge is whether this is something that is a one-off or are you going to find other measures that are going to be applied as you go through the next year or two."   Significant trading partners like the European Union have already threatened to retaliate should the United States move forward with the steel and aluminum tariffs.   The EU published a list of hundreds of American products that could be a target — including US cigarettes, sweetcorn, ovens, sailboats, lipstick and steel sinks.   The Trump administration has left the door open for other countries to avoid the trade penalty, and is in negotiations with certain partners. So far only Canada and Mexico are off the hook.   The tariffs are expected to take effect on Friday.   Trade and foreign policy experts view the tariffs as leverage by the United States to put increased pressure on allies to address concerns beyond China.   "If it was just about steel and aluminum, there are other mechanisms to deal with this," Truman said.   President Trump has repeatedly threatened to get tough on countries that have trade surpluses with the United States. His view is that tariffs can be used to nudge allies on a variety of other issues, Alden said, from reducing the trade gap to spending more on security and defense.   The administration has already signaled it plans to work with "like-minded countries" in Argentina this week to push back against China's state subsidies and investment policies. The United States argues that government subsidies to exporters and other directives give China's homegrown players an extra advantage.   "There's been substantial recognition of this problem," a senior US Treasury official said on a call with reporters Thursday. "What we can say is the world is recognizing the problem and looking for ways to deal with it."   The senior official said he didn't expect the administration's recent tariff announcement to interfere with those efforts to tackle China's move away from market liberalization.   But experts cast doubt on the US strategy, saying it only creates divisiveness among partners.   "When you approach your own allies with such threats of tariffs, it takes away your ability to convene and get everybody on your side," said Heidi Crebo-Reiker, an adjunct senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former chief economist at the State Department.   The United States and other countries are worried about Beijing's overproduction of steel. China dumps that steel on trade partners at low prices that hurt those countries' industries.   Other countries are also worried about China's theft of intellectual property and bids to acquire emerging technology as an early investor in joint ventures.   "But that's not the way the administration looks at it," Alden said. "They think they are more likely to get the cooperation they want through threats rather than inducements."  China's powerful central bank has a new leader
There's a new boss at China's powerful central bank. China's parliament confirmed Monday that deputy governor Yi Gang has been promoted to the top job at the People's Bank of China. He replaces veteran governor Zhou Xiaochuan, who is retiring after leading China's central bank for more than 15 years.   Yi -- a US-educated economist who speaks English fluently -- had been deputy governor of the central bank for the last decade. He begins his first five-year term at the central bank immediately.   Analysts viewed Yi's promotion as a sign of continuity for the world's second-biggest economy. Zhou's governorship saw the size of China's economy increase exponentially as well as several big moves to open up the country to more foreign investment.   Zhou was known as an advocate of Western-style reforms for China's once closed off economy. He said last year that a lack of outside competition could lead to "laziness" in the financial sector.   Global investors will be hoping these sort of policies continue under Yi. The new governor was educated at Hamline University in Minnesota and the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, before teaching at Indiana University.   Rob Carnell, an economist at investment bank ING, said Monday that Yi's appointment was "a vote for continuity."   That could inject some confidence into China's stock market, added Jingyi Pan, a market strategist at trading firm IG Group. China's Shanghai Composite stock index was trading flat Monday morning following the news.   China's central bank -- like the US Federal Reserve -- plays a key role in the smooth running of the country's economy. Its responsibilities include setting interest rates and regulating China's huge financial sector.   One of Yi's big priorities will be getting China's enormous levels of debt under control as economic growth continues to cool. Growth is expected to come in at 6.5% this year, a few notches below the 6.9% rate seen in 2017.   China's total debt has increased rapidly since the global financial crisis. By the middle of last year, it was more than two and a half times the value of the entire Chinese economy, according to the Bank of International Settlements.   The Chinese economy faces other immediate threats. President Donald Trump's decision to impose tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum and the impending results of a probe into alleged Chinese theft of intellectual property have prompted fears of a trade war between the world's top two economies.   -- Nanlin Fang contributed to this report.   Facebook cofounder Chris Hughes: US needs universal basic income
As the co-founder of Facebook, Chris Hughes joined the ranks of the nation's Top 1% by the time he was in his mid-20s. That oversized success, he says, was a wake-up call. Being part of such a small group of people achieving such wealth while others struggled to get by helped him to realize the great inequities in America's economy.   Hughes wants to fix that.   Two years ago, he cofounded the Economic Security Project, a network of policymakers, academics, and technologists working to end poverty and rebuild the middle class. One of the solutions they have proposed? A guaranteed basic income that would provide $500 a month to every American worker making less than $50,000 a year.   In his new book, "Fair Shot: Rethinking Inequality and How We Earn," Hughes lays out how it will all work. CNNMoney spoke with him to learn more about the plan.   America is suffering from a record wealth gap. Why is this issue so important to you?   It is such a fundamental idea behind America that if you work hard, you can get ahead -- and you certainly don't live in poverty. But that isn't true today, and it hasn't been true in the country for decades.   I believe that unless we make significant changes today, the income inequality in our country will continue to grow and call into question the very nature of our social contract.   My own experience shines a light on how the tie between work and wealth in America has frayed. I was a scholarship kid who worked hard to get to Harvard, and I'm proud of the work I did to make Facebook successful in its early years.   But the fact that I was able to earn nearly half a billion dollars for three years of work is indicative of how unfair the American economy has become. Few people recognize that the same forces that enable the outsized "success" of many Internet entrepreneurs are also making it harder for everyone else to make ends meet.   Your solution to income inequality is a universal basic income system for working Americans. How would this system work?   In a few steps. First, I think we should invest in what we know works. The single most successful program to support economic mobility and fight poverty in the United States: is the Earned Income Tax Credit. Nearly 30 million Americans get between $500 and $6,000 each year to supplement other earnings, no strings attached. It's also a rare program that has bipartisan support.   And the results are undeniable. Recipients work just as much after they get the money as before, if not more. Their kids do better in school and are more likely to go to college. And families who get it are healthier, not to mention a little less stressed.   Rather than start some brand new program, we should expand and modernize the Earned Income Tax Credit to provide $500 per month, via direct deposit or debit card, to every working adult who makes less than $50,000.   A family with two adults in minimum wage jobs would see an overnight boost to their incomes of 40%. It would help 90 million Americans make ends meet and lift 20 million out of poverty overnight. Anyone working gets the money, including people who work in unpaid jobs like child care, elder care, and education, which our laws have historically ignored. It is time to expand the definition of work to recognize the contributions millions of Americans are already making, but not getting paid for.   And we should pay for it by bringing tax rates on people like me into line with their historical averages -- 50% on income above $250,000 -- and closing the most egregious tax loopholes.   This is not about pitchforks coming for the rich -- it's about taking care of one another. The total cost would be less than half of what we spend on defense each year.   I do think it's important to say that this kind of policy is not a silver bullet. We still need good schools, better health care and smart climate policy. But an expanded EITC is the most powerful and immediate thing that we can do to combat income inequality and give everyone a fair shot.   You propose giving $500 per month to every working adult whose family makes less than $50,000. How did you arrive at $500?   Five hundred dollars is enough to provide a financial cushion that can be used to cover bills, pay down debt, save, cover some basic expenses while being retrained for a new job, or any other manner of economic challenges millions of families face every day. It's not intended to replace a paycheck, but to supplement it.   I also think we should expand the definition of work to include caregivers and students, which would recognize the work of an additional 30 million Americans in the workforce and offer them a financial lifeline that doesn't exist today.   I also think we could start with $500 and if the technical unemployment that some predict arrives, then the amount could increase.   What would you say to those in the 1% who argue that they've worked hard for their wealth and shouldn't be responsible for supporting those who are less successful?   This isn't about taking down the rich. This is about acknowledging the glaring disparity we have in our country between the ultra-wealthy and everyone else -- the top 0.1% owns as much as the bottom 90%.   And rich folks don't necessarily work harder than those who are poor. In fact, money paid for work only accounts for about 15% of the income of Americans making $10 million per year or more; the rest is capital income from simply owning assets.   So when you have a minimum wage worker who is taking buses across Chicago to juggle multiple jobs who can barely pay his rent despite working almost around the clock, you have to recognize there's something wrong with the system.   Critics argue that handouts aren't the solution because they don't incentivize people to work. What are your thoughts?   Americans don't want handouts, but they do want the basic security of knowing that if you're working, you're not going to live in poverty.   A guaranteed income for working people will provide that financial stability that a full-time job used to provide in America, but the gig economy increasingly fails to provide today. For those who can't work, like the elderly and disabled, that is exactly what the social safety net is for.   What do you believe we can gain as a society from universal basic income?   A guaranteed income alone isn't going to guarantee everyone a fair shot, but it is by far the single most powerful tool to help.   At the core of America is that the idea that people have the opportunity to live their own dreams, that they can be the person they want to be. If you want to be a teacher, nurse, artist or businessperson, you should have every chance to work toward that goal. That requires a good education and the ability to work your way up over time.   But every step along that journey requires cash of some sort - to pay for a security deposit on an apartment, the gas money to interview for a job, or for childcare while you're in classes at the local community college. Right now, people have little cushion, and poor and even middle-class people have no savings to pay for basic expenses.   A guaranteed income is not a cure-all, but it does make it just a little bit easier for people to fulfill their dreams.  $12,000 for a bee sting? Emergency room visits get even pricier
Sylvia Rosas decided to go to the emergency room after getting stung by a bee in her yard in Valrico, Florida. She had experienced allergic reactions in the past, but didn't have an EpiPen on hand. However, what really hurt was the $12,000 bill she received for the visit to the ER.   The 53-year-old said she was seen by several doctors, who ordered thousands of dollars in blood tests and an EKG during the 2015 visit that lasted less than two hours. Since the hospital was out of network, her insurer wouldn't cover the visit, and she ended up having to pay the entire bill.   "Never did I think I'd have this type of a bill," said Rosas, a mortgage loan officer who says she's now hesitant to go to the doctor. "I was there for such a short time."   Rosas isn't the only one getting hit with big bills after a trip to the ER.   Spending on an emergency room visit rose to $1,917, on average, in 2016, up more than 31% from four years earlier, according to the Health Care Cost Institute, which analyzes spending and usage of nearly 40 million Americans with employer-sponsored coverage.   The spike in spending was driven almost entirely by an increase in the prices charged by hospitals, even as ER usage remained relatively flat. The spending covers the hospitals' charges for stepping foot in the ER, known as a facility fee, as well as some tests and services. It doesn't include ER evaluations by doctors, who usually send patients a separate bill.   Overall, the soaring price of ER visits, along with steep hikes in prescription drugs and outpatient surgery costs, have helped fuel a 15% increase in overall health care spending, the institute found.   There may be several reasons why it's getting costlier to go to the emergency room, experts said.   The price hikes stem in part from the fact that ERs are seeing a greater number of patients with more severe medical problems, said Niall Brennan, the institute's CEO.   Hospitals base their ER facility fee charge on the severity of the condition they are treating. Folks with simpler issues, such as cuts or fevers, are more often turning to urgent care centers or pharmacy clinics. So emergency rooms are more likely to receive patients with serious problems, such as chest pain or asthma attacks, which are more expensive to treat.   Also, more emergency rooms now have access to advanced -- and pricey -- technology, such as CT scans and MRIs, said Renee Hsia, professor of emergency medicine and health policy at the University of California, San Francisco. And patients expect to have more testing done in the ER rather than waiting to go to a lab or doctor's office after they are discharged.   The American Hospital Association challenged the institute's study, saying that annual hospital price growth rates are at near record lows. But the industry group did agree that emergency rooms are treating more complex conditions, citing its report from 2013 that showed Medicare patients treated in the ER had more severe illnesses and visited more frequently.   Still, many ER patients are stunned by the bills they receive.   Rick Brown tried to avoid going to the emergency room after he fell into a small hole by his pool in November and hurt his ankle. He tried icing and elevating it, but after a few days the pain was excruciating.   He finally went to the ER near his home in Brick, New Jersey, where he had an X-ray and was seen by a physician assistant. Brown, who arrived at the hospital on his own crutches, learned he had fractured his ankle. The 58-year-old was given a splint, a prescription for painkillers and a recommendation that he follow up with a specialist.   A few weeks later, the bills started coming in -- including a $2,600 for the ER and $5,700 from a physicians' office. His insurance paid half the ER fee, but wouldn't cover the doctor charges because the provider was out-of-network.   Brown, a bartender, was furious, noting that he was twice asked for his insurance card in the ER. Had he known he'd be on the hook for thousands of dollars, he said he would have hobbled out or waited to go to the doctor's appointment he had made for later in the week.   "To have insurance and to be facing these astronomical bills, I get incensed," said Brown. "You're in a lot of pain and you have insurance. You are expecting it to be covered."   Brown plans to talk to the hospital and the physicians' office to try to reduce the charges.   That's a good move, said Martin Makary, professor of surgery and health policy at Johns Hopkins University. When patients come to the ER, they don't need to sign any paperwork promising to pay in full, Makary said. Federal law requires emergency rooms to screen and stabilize anyone who comes through the doors.   Makary published a study last year that found that hospitals mark up emergency services -- such as suturing a wound or interpreting a CT scan -- by an average of 340% more than what Medicare allows. (The Medicare allowable amount includes what Medicare reimburses, as well as any deductibles or co-pays the patients pay.) So consumers should try to bargain providers down if they get a big bill.   "Prices are highly fluctuant and often negotiable," he said. "As with new cars, people are not expected to pay the sticker price."  Federal Reserve will raise rates this week, but what comes next?
The Federal Reserve is all but certain to lift interest rates when Jerome Powell leads his first meeting as chairman later this week. The bigger question, however, is what will the Fed do next?   For years after the financial crisis the US central bank has followed a consistent path of slowly raising rates to keep the economy humming without causing it to overheat. But a recent $1.5 trillion tax cut and $300 billion spending bill, along with an improved economic outlook, have more recently changed that calculus.   The Fed may have to raise rates faster than it had planned to prevent the economy from overheating.   Markets expect with near certainty that Powell and members of the Federal Open Market Committee will propose a rate hike Wednesday.   Fed officials will also release their revised economic forecasts when they conclude their two-day policy setting meeting. Their forecasts will signal whether they now expect to raise rates four times this year rather than three.   Powell will also take questions from reporters at his inaugural press conference.   All will be listening for clues on what his future plans will be for the central bank's policies. Will Powell maintain the glide path set by predecessor Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen? Or will he set a new course of faster rate hikes as the economy continues to pick up steam?   Powell has already expressed confidence early into his four-year term that the next few years will be "good years for the economy" and that many of the challenges facing the economy have faded into the background.   He's also pointed to fiscal policy as one reason his economic outlook has strengthened since December. Powell's bright economic outlook last month helped to raise investor expectations that faster interest rate hikes may be on the way.   "Recent strengthening of labor market conditions along with the passage of substantial fiscal stimulus measures in Washington, has raised the possibility that some FOMC policymakers might decide that a faster pace of policy tightening would be appropriate this year," Kevin Logan, chief US economist at HSBC wrote in a note to clients.   Wall Street firms like Goldman Sachs and UBS Securities predict the Fed will revise its estimate to four rate hikes this week. But not all of Wall Street is entirely convinced.   "We think it's too early for the committee to signal that it is prepared to hike four times this year," Michael Gapen, a Barclays analyst wrote in a note to clients. "We see that as more likely in June."   While a few members of the FOMC may up their predictions, it's unlikely to change the current median estimate of three rate hikes in 2018, according to some Wall Street analysts.   One reason for Fed officials to take a wait-and-see approach at the upcoming meeting is to ascertain what the anticipated effect tax cuts will have on the economy.   The other major factor is to see whether there's further evidence inflation is rising.   The Fed's preferred gauge of inflation stands at 1.5%. But central bankers expect it to "move up" this year and data show it was already "a little bit higher" by the end of last year.   "Until there is clear evidence that inflation is accelerating, we do not think that the committee will break continuity with the policy path laid down by former Chair Janet Yellen for gradual rate hikes," Logan wrote.   — Correction: An earlier version of this story misstated the amount of the federal spending bill.  Trump's tariffs to be debated in the land of protectionism: Argentina
Fears of a trade war are simmering this week as President Trump is expected to impose sweeping tariffs on steel and aluminum. Those concerns could be cooled or kindled Monday and Tuesday at the G20 meetings in Argentina -- a country infamous for its own tariffs and trade barriers.   After decades of protectionism, Argentina's now business-friendly government has been trying to shed that legacy, embrace free trade and move away from the very policies the United States is promoting.   "The United States is the new Argentina at the G20. It's the skunk at the garden party that disrupts consensus on core issues, trade and climate change among them," says Benjamin Gedan, former South America director on the White House's National Security Council under President Obama. Gedan currently runs the Argentina Project, a research center in Washington.   Finance ministers and central bankers convene this week in South America's second largest nation in what amounts to countries' last major chance to seek an exemption before the tariffs take effect later this week.   Trump will impose a 25% tariff on steel and a 10% tariff on aluminum. He is also expected to impose more tariffs on China this month for its alleged theft of US intellectual property -- software, patents and so on. Administration officials say trade war fears are overblown and everything will be fine.   But the European Union, China and Brazil have hinted or explicitly said they will retaliate with their own tariffs on US goods if they don't receive exemptions. Mexico and Canada are the only nations to explicitly receive exemptions, and Trump even made those contingent on the progress of NAFTA talks. Trump tweeted that Australia would be exempt too.   Argentina's history of tariffs and trade barriers serves as a cautionary, albeit extreme, tale about the perils of protectionism. The country suffers from double-digit inflation, high unemployment and uncompetitive industries controlled by powerful labor unions that have often dictated politics and policies.   Experts say that confluence of forces -- and the false sense of comfort the tariffs provide to industries -- mean Argentine companies aren't ready to face foreign competition.   "If you have a protected market, and you don't have competition, what's your incentive to modernize?" says Alberto Ramos, head of Latin America research at Goldman Sachs. "We are on the right path, but it's going to be a long journey."   Macri has made some progress on his policy. He eliminated some tariffs and is trying to negotiate a trade deal between the European Union and a South American trade bloc. And he's hosting the G20, which has traditionally been a celebration of free trade.   But Macri can't tear down all tariffs overnight without risking manufacturing jobs in Argentina that would be at risk if a flood of cheaper -- and higher quality -- imports came into the country.   Economists say that, in reality, the United States is still far more open to trade than Argentina, even after the steel and aluminum tariffs take effect. The countries' tales of trade aren't an apples-to-apples comparison.   Tariffs in Argentina help to make iPhones cost nearly $2,000   Differences aside, Argentines feel the pain of tariffs at the checkout counter. And the top concern in the United States, at least among businesses and lawmakers, is rising prices on goods stemming from Trump's tariffs.   For example, Argentina is one of the most expensive places in the world to buy an iPhone, according to prices by Apple and certified, third-party vendors of its products.   An iPhone X 64 GB sells for nearly 39,999 Argentine pesos ($1,963) at Claro, one of Apple's vendors in the country. Next door in Chile, a pro-trade nation, the same phone sells at Claro stores for $1,143 -- or 42% less than in Argentina. It sells for $999 in the United States.   The result: Argentines often go to Chile or fly 5,000 miles to the United States to buy iPhones and other electronic goods.   The fact that Argentines can buy iPhones at stores is actually new. Stores stopped selling them after the previous government imposed a 35% tariff in 2011 on imported phones. Claro and others only brought back iPhones last year. Macri dropped the 35% tariff on some electronic goods, such as computers and tablets, but it still remains in place for cell phones. Companies expect the cell phone tariff to be dropped eventually too.   The former government, led by Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, took a similar tactic that Trump is using today.   Kirchner told phone makers to manufacture in the country if they wanted to sell there. Apple passed on the demand. Blackberry opened a plant in Tierra del Fuego, a city closer to Antarctica than Argentina's capital, Buenos Aires. (Kirchner, now a senator, has her core voter base in southern Argentina).   Macri, the current president, says tariffs have badly hurt Argentina.   "Protectionism, isolationism, the last 30 years -- the only [achievement] was consolidating poverty," Macri told CNN in an interview last April.  Companies can seek tariff exemptions but rules are unclear
The Trump administration began accepting applications Monday from companies seeking an exemption from its sweeping tariffs on steel and aluminum. But it's unclear exactly which companies are eligible to apply. The application process takes up to 90 days. The tariffs begin Friday.   The Commerce Department said in a statement Sunday night that "domestic industry" or "US industry" may apply for an exemption on the 10% aluminum tariff or 25% steel tariff.   Commerce didn't clarify whether foreign companies with factories and other operations in the US may apply. For example, Toyota has car plant in Kentucky. BMW has one in South Carolina. A Commerce spokesman did not respond to a request to clarify.   Companies that do apply must fill out separate forms for steel and aluminum exemptions, if they apply for both. It's not clear what criteria the Commerce Department will use to decide which companies get exemptions and which don't. But applicants must say what specific, imported metal products they use, and whether there is a US firm that produces the same product to the quantity and quality needed.   Commerce says it will judge all exemptions in the context of US national security -- the rationale in the first place for the tariffs.   Conversely, steel and aluminum companies are also allowed to file objections to other companies' exemption applications. They are allowed to seek an objection if they prove they can or will produce a similar steel or aluminum product of the necessary quantity and quality. They must also state how long the delivery will take.   Commerce says companies with questions regarding the steel tariff exemption should email steel232@bis.doc.gov or call 202-482-5642. Firms with questions regarding the aluminum tariff exemptions should contact aluminum232@bis.doc.gov or 202-482-4757. The steel exemption form can be found here and the aluminum exemption form here.  Trump bans Americans from buying Venezuelan cryptocurrency
President Trump further cut off Venezuela's government from American investors on Monday. Trump signed an executive order banning US citizens from buying Venezuela's newly created cryptocurrency, the petro, the world's first sovereign digital currency.   Trump considers Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro a dictator. Venezuela is in the midst of an unprecedented economic and humanitarian crisis in Latin America. Maduro is seeking re-election in May.   The measure comes after the Trump administration banned American investors from buying newly issued Venezuelan bonds from either the government or the state-run oil company, PDVSA. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is also meeting Monday with Latin American leaders at the G20 meetings in Buenos Aires, where Venezuela will be a topic of discussion.   Maduro drummed up the petro as a way for his administration to tap foreign investment amid the initial wave of US financial sanctions. The petro went on sale in private auctions in February.   Maduro tweeted at the time that the private auctions raised $735 million, though CNN could not independently confirm that amount. The government said the petro would be backed by Venezuela crude oil reserves, the largest in the world. But investors would not actually have an ownership stake in Venezuela's oil.   The petro drew criticism from both mainstream investors and cryptocurrency experts. Critics treated it like a joke and a direct conflict to the purpose of digital currencies as unregulated and not controlled by a government.   Venezuela's government has been slowly running out of money for years. But the pace of the cash drain is accelerating as Venezuelan oil production has plummeted in recent months. The country's central bank only has $9.4 billion left in reserves, most of which is held in gold bars, central bank filings show. Reserves are meant to serve as a cushion for the economy.   International critics say Maduro will rig the presidential election in May. Many top opposition candidates are boycotting the election for that reason -- and Maduro has also banned many of them. There are other candidates, such as Henri Falcon, running for president. But Falcon, a former member of Maduro's political ideology "chavismo," has struggled to convince Maduro's critics that his candidacy is, in fact, legitimate.   Trump's executive order follows US sanctions he slapped on dozens of Venezuelan leaders last year, including Maduro.  Major retailers to Trump: New China tariffs will hurt American shoppers
The nation's largest retailers are asking President Donald Trump not to slap new tariffs on China. The Trump administration has already imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from most of the world, aimed primarily at curbing the excess production coming from China. But the White House confirmed to CNN last week that the administration is weighing tariffs on at least $30 billion worth of other imports from China. The move would be retaliation for alleged intellectual property theft, such as the sale of counterfeit goods and pirated software, as well as stolen corporate secrets. The decision on further action against China is expected soon, perhaps this week.   A letter signed Monday by 49 of the nation's largest retailers, including Walmart (WMT), Target (TGT) and Costco (COST), argues the tariffs would hurt working families who shop in their stores.   "As you continue to investigate harmful technology and intellectual property practices, we ask that any remedy carefully consider the impact on consumer prices. We must do right by American families while also addressing harmful technology practices," said the letter.   A number of business groups are also arguing against further sanctions, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, several tech groups and trade associations that represent retailers, agriculture, telecommunications, clothing and the auto parts industry. A letter dated Sunday and signed by 45 industry trade groups says that imposing tariffs would only hurt US businesses and consumers and would not be an effective way to reign in China's worst practices.   "The imposition of sweeping tariffs would trigger a chain reaction of negative consequences for the U.S. economy, provoking retaliation; stifling U.S. agriculture, goods, and services exports; and raising costs for businesses and consumers," said the letter. "The Administration should not respond to unfair Chinese practices and policies by imposing tariffs or other measures that will harm U.S. companies, workers, farmers, ranchers, consumers, and investors."   The letter says that the groups agree that the administration is right to consider acting against China to protect US intellectual property. "These persistent problems jeopardize U.S. global competitiveness, innovation, productivity, and cybersecurity," it said. "We...support an effort to address China's discriminatory practices."   But the groups say they worry that imposing additional tariffs on China are isn't the best way to respond. Instead the letter argues that the US should work with trading partners in other countries which are also upset about China's practices, rather than going it alone.   "Imposition of unilateral tariffs by the administration would only serve to split the United States from its allies, hinder joint action to effectively address shared challenges," said the letter.   It also warned that if China retaliates against US companies in response to tariffs, American companies would lose business that would go instead to companies from other countries.  What boom? The economy is off to a 'meh' start to 2018
President Trump cheered last week that the "raging" economy is at an "all-time high," mirroring optimism on Wall Street and Corporate America about a stellar year for growth. Unfortunately, predictions for first-quarter economic growth have plunged in recent weeks, signaling 2018 may be off to a "meh" start.   Barely a month ago the Atlanta Federal Reserve predicted booming growth of 5.4% for the first three months of the year. But stingy spending by American consumers has forced the Atlanta Fed to dramatically scale back its outlook. The call is now for GDP growth of a rather pedestrian 1.8%.   Goldman Sachs (GS), Barclays and other Wall Street firms have similarly trimmed their growth forecasts below 2%.   That's despite rising confidence among American families, CEOs and small business owners in the wake of Trump's $1.5 trillion tax cuts.   "We're seeing a lot of positive fervor from consumers and businesses, but that hasn't translated into action yet," said Kristina Hooper, Invesco's global market strategist.   Even though consumer confidence hit a 17-year high last month, retail sales unexpectedly declined between January and February. It was the third-straight monthly drop, a disappointing trend given that consumer spending drives two-thirds of the economy.   The good news is that the economic backdrop looks strong despite the recent soft patch. Consider the blockbuster February jobs report that revealed a surge of 313,000 jobs.   Growth is expected to accelerate later this year, especially as the effects of the tax law are felt.   The uninspiring start to the year also fits into a recent pattern, where growth starts dull and then rebounds. The San Francisco Fed even published a 2015 report about the "puzzle of weak first-quarter GDP growth" that suggested it's more of a statistical problem than a real one.   "We shouldn't worry too much about it. Historically, first-quarter GDP tends to be weak," said Hooper.   There may be one-time forces weighing down the economy as well. Most notably, the destruction of more than half a million cars by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma created a surge of demand that lifted the economy at the end of 2017.   "The post-hurricane bounce is fading. It's a boom and bust for autos, but not indicative of the economy rolling over," said Michael Gapen, chief U.S. economist at Barclays.   The tax law may also be playing a role here.   Morgan Stanley said enthusiasm over the coming tax cuts "pulled forward spending" into the final three months of last year, "leading to payback" in the beginning of 2018. In other words, people spent more than they would normally prior to the tax law getting enacted and now they're cutting back.   "There appears to be nothing sinister going on among America's households," Morgan Stanley economic Michel Dilmanian wrote in a recent report.   Other people are likely waiting to see how the wide-reaching tax law impacts their personal finances before splurging on a large purchase like a TV or refrigerator.   "This is a complicated tax package. Consumers are still figuring out the impact," said Hooper.   Bigger picture, there remains a lot of optimism about the economy over the rest of 2018.   Economists think it's possible that growth hits 3% for the year, meeting the Trump administration's goal. The Federal Reserve may even reveal an upgraded economic outlook on Wednesday.   It certainly helps that the economy is poised to receive a double boost from the impact of the tax law and a bipartisan agreement in Washington ramp up spending by about $300 billion.   Of course, adding all that help to an already-healthy economy could backfire if it creates so much inflation that it forces the Fed to cool things down with aggressive rate hikes.   The other major risk is that Trump's trade crackdown goes horribly wrong. Major trading partners have already vowed to retaliate against Trump's steep tariffs on steel and aluminum tariffs.   Next, Trump wants to confront China's alleged theft of intellectual property, setting up a potential trade war between the world's two biggest economies.   "The anti-trade and anti-immigration parts of the Trump administration's agenda are not growth friendly," said Gapen.   "Do we get into a tit for tat? That's a massive risk to the outlook," he said.  California plan will help low-income women train for construction jobs
She likes to say that she slept through the last 13 years of her life, and indeed, much of it is a blur: Abusive relationship. His-and-her arrests for domestic violence. Meth habit. A period of quasi-homelessness. A 37-day stint in jail for petty theft. Now, at 38, Sandra Alvarez says she is awake — and duly awoken, she is aiming for a massive do-over: She's newly sober. And most importantly, she's got career aspirations: She wants to work in construction.   "The first time I went on a construction site, I felt some kind of power," said Alvarez, tattooed with a swath of dark, wavy hair. "It's weird, but I felt like I belonged."   But the construction field is a hard one to crack, particularly if you're female. Women comprise less than 3% of the trade workforce, roughly the same portion as 30 years ago. The barriers are many. Sexism is a given — like the foreman who told Alvarez he didn't need her help on his job site, but sure could use her help in the bedroom.   So Alvarez is hanging her hopes on a state-funded "pre-apprenticeship" program in California, where she is learning the basics of the industry, from blueprints and construction math to job safety.   The goal: to land a highly coveted apprenticeship that will lead to a good-paying union job.   More women might soon be able to take advantage of similar programs.   States are faced with an aging infrastructure and an aging workforce. And just when the country is considering mammoth investments to repair roads, bridges and highways, there's a shortage of skilled trades workers. California's new Road Repair and Accountability Act aims to tackle both problems.   Mostly, it's an ambitious, $50 billion, 10-year building program that uses a gas tax increase to fund road repairs, bridge maintenance and public transit. But the law also includes an unusual provision: a $25 million investment to get more women like Alvarez into pre-apprenticeships.   The idea is to help disadvantaged Californians get accepted into trade apprenticeship schools — and in so doing, reduce the number of people receiving public assistance.   "A lot of women shy away from construction because of the work environment," said Democratic state Sen. Jim Beall, the primary sponsor of the legislation. "We're trying to change that good ol' boy, business as usual, construction culture."   Breaking into the industry means combating stereotypes that construction is men's work. Traditionally, construction newbies enter the industry through a state-regulated apprenticeship: Apprentices earn as they learn, laboring under the mentorship of seasoned professionals, with some supplementary classroom instruction. Apprentices can join a union, getting a bump in salary as they complete each level of their training.   But getting into these programs can be tricky, and often entail long waiting lists. Pre-apprenticeships can help fill that void, because classes are devised with input from local trades unions.   The current pre-apprenticeship initiative builds on earlier efforts following President Barack Obama's 2009 stimulus plan and a 2014 California program for the clean-energy industry, said Tim Rainey, executive director of the California Workforce Development Board.   "You have to be intentional about bringing women into the industry," said Meg Vasey executive director of Tradeswomen, Inc., an Oakland-based training and advocacy group. "Otherwise, they're going to hire the one-armed, one-eyed, ex-offender male before they hire a woman."     Rising Sun   As a means to hire more women and underserved Californians, construction jobs make sense for a lot of reasons. You don't need a college career to earn a good living: Experienced tradespeople can make between $25 and $50 an hour.   For people who have taken a few detours on their career trajectory, construction can be quite forgiving, said Cesar Diaz, legislative and political director at California's State Building and Construction Trades Council, AFL-CIO.   To qualify, participants need a GED or high school diploma and proof that they're eligible to work in the United States. A driver's license is recommended.   At the Rising Sun Energy Center in Berkeley, instructor Ester Sandoval paces the packed room. It's an all-women's class, where women take field trips to job sites, brush up on their math skills, and work out with a trainer so they'll be strong enough to haul gear. They also learn how to cope in a male-dominated industry: how to deal with bullying and the art of the snappy comeback.   The students, a variety of ages and colors, hunker down, all furrowed focus.   Sandoval is part cheerleader, part drill sergeant, pushing the women, urging them to speak up, "raise your voice through your core."   "Fake it 'til you make it," Sandoval tells them.   Bigger in California   Several other states -- among them Illinois, Massachusetts, Minnesota and West Virginia -- have used pre-apprenticeship programs to launch women into careers in construction, cobbling together funding from a variety of sources. Maine was one of the first states to tie public works funding with recruiting women to work in construction.   In 1994, the Maine Department of Transportation used a $157 million bridge replacement project as an opportunity to create a more "women-friendly" work environment, even offering on-site child care.   But California's plan is unusual in its size and scope. It employs a multi-curriculum approach, exposing students to a variety of trades, from metalworking to pipe fitting to plumbing, and it requires that the programs work directly with local unions.   "This is part of a trend to make sure that as we invest in roads and transportation, that we're using those public dollars to end those inequities that have shut women out," said Lauren Sugerman, national policy director of Chicago Women in Trades, an advocacy and training group.   Alvarez, who sometimes works as a day laborer at construction sites, said many of the men in her life don't take her seriously.   But ever since she worked in a hardware store as a teen, she's been fascinated with building things. This is where she belongs.   "I want to run stuff," she said. "This is my calling."   The Pew Charitable Trusts funds both the Pew Research Center and Stateline.  1.3 million health care workers are getting their first raise since 2010
More than a million health care workers in the UK are getting their first real raise since 2010. Nurses, paramedics, emergency call handlers, hospital porters and other workers have been promised salary increases of 6.5% to 29% over the next three years, starting as soon as July.   The hikes, which are worth a combined £4.2 billion ($5.9 billion), follow years of stagnant pay for public sector workers in the UK. Real wages in health care have dropped by 14% since 2010, according to the Royal College of Nursing, a labor union.   "Seven years of pay freezes and wage increases well below the cost of living have meant significant financial hardship for health staff and their families," said Sara Gorton, the lead negotiator for health care unions.   The agreement between labor unions and the government means that the lowest paid health care workers will see their salaries rise by up to 13% this year, an increase of over £2,000 ($2,800). UK inflation is running at 2.7%.   The deal, which affects 1.3 million workers in the UK's National Health Service, does not include doctors.   Annual public sector pay increases in the UK were capped at 1% in 2013, after two years of being frozen, because of concerns over rising government debt.   Almost a third of all British public service employees work for the National Health Service. Another 30% work in education.   Prime Minister Theresa May has been under increasing pressure in recent months to lift the caps on pay.   It's not just wages that has been restrained in recent years. Overall government spending slumped from 45% of the country's GDP in 2010 to just over 39% in 2017.   Data from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development show that the UK is one of the lowest health care spenders in the G7. It lags the United States, Germany, France, Japan and Canada.   Low pay is contributing to serious staffing problems at the NHS. According to The Royal College of Nursing, 40,000 nursing jobs in England alone are currently unfilled.   More nurses are leaving the profession than joining it, and the number of applications for college degrees in nursing plunged after the government scrapped college scholarship programs.   Janet Davies, general secretary of the Royal College of Nursing, said the pay deal should "begin to make the profession attractive again."  Why Trump's tariffs on China are a big deal
Main Street and Wall Street are bracing as the United States prepares to levy more tariffs on China. President Trump on Thursday directed the US trade representative to level tariffs on about $50 billion worth of Chinese imports.   What's expected to happen   In the next 15 days, US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer will publish a list of products that his team intends to hit with tariffs. It's not clear how high the individual tariffs will be.   The United States also plans to impose new investment restrictions and take action against China at the World Trade Organization.   Why it matters   1. The Trump administration is turning its tough talk on trade into action this year.   2. Chinese officials are warning that they will retaliate with tariffs on US exports to China. They haven't been specific yet, though.   3. Investors, economists and policymakers are worried about a China-US trade war that could embroil the global economy.   4. Americans buy lots of Chinese-made goods. Prices will likely go up for shoppers. How much is anyone's guess.   So there's a lot at stake, from Wall Street to your local Walmart.   Trump administration officials say fears of a trade war are overblown. And the tariffs are essentially delivering on a campaign promise: Trump told voters he would get tough on China, accusing it of stealing US jobs.   The $50 billion question is whether Trump's tariffs, and the likely Chinese retaliation, will create or kill more American jobs.   What does China have to say about this?   China sharply warned Trump again on Tuesday.   "A trade war does no good to anyone. There is no winner," China's Premier Li Keqiang said at a press conference in Beijing.   China can push back on the United States. For example, it is one of the biggest buyers of US crops, including soybeans or sorghum. China could put a tariff on those, or decide to buy more soy from places like Brazil and Argentina.   China is also the biggest creditor of the United States: It owns more US government bonds than any other country. And it recently cut some of its US debt holdings, though investors don't currently expect China to immediately dump its US debt.   How we got here   In August, US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer launched an investigation into Chinese theft of US intellectual property, including software, cell phone apps and technology patents.   The US economy is driven by businesses that provide services like technology companies. So China's theft of intellectual property hits at a real strength in the US economy.   The United States focused on four allegations by American companies against China. The companies allege:   1. Chinese firms force them into partnerships, then steal their technology and eventually end the joint venture.   2. Chinese companies are using government funds to steal American tech secrets and innovation.   3. China uses "cyber intrusions" into US commercial networks to spy on US commerce.   4. American companies operating in China don't have the same property rights that Chinese firms do.   The Trump administration said Thursday it found ample evidence that China is guilty of each accusation.   Trump invoked a rarely used 1974 trade law to justify the case. President Reagan used the law 49 times during his administration, but it gradually fell out of practice after the World Trade Organization was created in 1995. It's one of Trump's many tools to hit other countries with tariffs without congressional approval.   In this particular case, trade experts widely agree with the Trump administration that China has cheated and stolen, and that it should pay a price. The administration's diagnosis is correct, economists say. The remedy is where people differ.   — CNN's Steven Jiang and Tim Schwarz contributed reporting from Beijing. Jeremy Diamond contributed reporting from Washington.    — Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly said that Ronald Reagan was the last president to invoke the Trade Act of 1974. It was last used by President Barack Obama in 2010, although President Reagan was most famous for invoking it.   Fed raises interest rates in Powell's debut
Interest rates are going up. The Federal Reserve raised rates on Wednesday in its first meeting under Chairman Jerome Powell — a sign of confidence that the economy is growing stronger with very low unemployment and rising wages.   "The economic outlook has strengthened in recent months," the Fed said in a statement following its two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting.   The Fed lifted the federal funds rate, which helps determine rates for mortgages, credit cards and other borrowing, to a range of 1.5% to 1.75%. That was an increase of a quarter of a percentage point.   It was the sixth increase since December 2015, when the Fed started tightening monetary policy for the first time after the financial crisis. Rates are still extremely low by historical standards.   The country's bright economic outlook had raised investor expectations that the Fed would accelerate this year's planned rate increases to keep the economy from overheating.   But the Fed showed it's not ready to speed up just yet.   Instead, the central bank stuck to its plans for three interest rate hikes this year, reinforcing the message that it plans to maintain gradual increases.   But the Fed signaled it may favor a more aggressive pace to keep the economy humming in the coming years. It shifted its plans for next year, calling for three more rate hikes instead of two.   "We've made one decision at this meeting and that decision was to raise the federal funds rate by 25 basis points," Powell told reporters at his first press conference.   He said economic forecasts can change, and the Fed could be "a little less gradual or a little more gradual" when it comes to future interest rate decisions.   Fed officials were split on whether this week's policy meeting was the appropriate time to announce a fourth rate hike in 2018.   Central bankers did offer hints that they may be inclined to raise rates more frequently this year to keep the economy from overheating. Nearly half of FOMC members now believe that will be necessary if the economy keeps performing as well as they expect.   For years after the financial crisis, the Fed kept interest rates near zero to support the recovery. Then it began to raise rates only slowly, starting in 2015. But an improved economic outlook, accelerated by the recent $1.5 trillion tax cut and $300 billion spending bill, has more recently changed that calculus.   "We're trying to take the middle ground there," Powell said.   Powell's job is to keep the economy churning without starting a recession during his four-year term — a risk the Fed chair said he does not see as imminent.   The unanimous decision on Wednesday's rate hike signals to Wall Street that Powell, for the time being, will stick with his predecessor Janet Yellen's plans for gradual rate increases.   The policy move leaves central bankers with room to assess whether they will need to raise rates faster to prevent the economy from overheating.   The Fed now expects faster economic growth this year — 2.7%, up from a forecast of 2.5% in December. That was before Republican tax cuts were enacted and lawmakers made a deal for $300 billion in additional government spending.   Policy makers also maintained their inflation outlook of 1.9%, slightly below the Fed's target.   Powell dampened fears that inflation could take off if the unemployment rate remains low. The Fed now projects the unemployment rate to fall to 3.8% this year. It now stands at 4.1%.   "There's no sense in the data that we're on the cusp of an acceleration in inflation," Powell said. "We're very alert to it, but it's not something we observe at the present."   The Fed's preferred gauge of inflation stands at 1.5%. But central bankers expect it to "move up" this year, and data show it was already "a little bit higher" by the end of last year. Policy makers said Wednesday they now expect inflation to rise above their 2% target next year and in 2020.   Powell was pressed by reporters on how the Fed would respond if inflation were to rise above its 2% target. Officials have said their target is symmetric, meaning they would be comfortable if inflation was below or above 2%.   For now, Powell said policy makers hadn't reached any agreement on how the Fed might respond to prevent the economy from overheating.   Powell, asked about President Trump's tariffs, said the Fed did not believe changes in trade policy "should have any effect on the current outlook." But he did not that business leaders had expressed concern to Fed officials.   The Fed chair said ongoing trade disputes are now "a more prominent risk to the outlook" than before. He refrained from answering questions on a potential trade war between the United States and China.  EU and others may get tariff exemptions, US trade official says
The United States may avoid a trade war with some of its top allies. The European Union, South Korea, Australia, Argentina and Brazil may be exempted from the Trump administration's tariffs on steel and aluminum, US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer told the House Ways and Means Committee on Wednesday.   Lighthizer stopped short of saying that exemptions were certain for those countries. But his comments were the clearest yet on which countries might avoid the trade penalties.   The tariffs — 25% on foreign steel and 10% on foreign aluminum — are scheduled to take effect Friday.   The Trump administration has already said Canada and Mexico will be exempt. President Trump has tied those exclusions to progress in NAFTA renegotiation talks.   The further exemptions raised by Lighthizer would mean that the top four steel exporters to the United States, and four of the top seven aluminum exporters, would be left out of the tariffs, according to US government data and Panjiva, a research firm owned by S&P Global.   The Trump administration claims imported steel and aluminum pose a risk to US national security. Many US allies have argued that their steel does not pose a threat.   Lighthizer said that while the United States and those countries work out the details of possible exemptions, the tariffs would likely not apply during that time span in order to avoid brief disruptions in supply chains.   He said "great numbers" of countries have asked the US administration for exemptions.  China plans to hit US with tariffs following Trump trade sanctions
China could slap tariffs on $3 billion worth of US goods in the latest move to increase trade tensions between the two countries. The country's Commerce Ministry said Friday that the proposed trade sanctions would target US-made products ranging from pork to steel pipes.   The decision came just hours after President Donald Trump directed the US trade representative to level tariffs on about $50 billion worth of Chinese goods following a seven-month investigation into intellectual property theft.   In addition to the tariffs, the United States plans to impose new investment restrictions and take action against China at the World Trade Organization. The US Treasury Department will also propose additional measures.   Despite the timing of its response, China's Commerce Ministry did not label the measures a direct retaliation for Thursday's broadside from the Trump administration. China's decision to hit back was based on the Trump administration's decision to apply tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum earlier in March, it said.   China's list includes 128 US products. A tax of 15% would be levied on 120 products such as fresh and dried fruits, nuts, wine and steel pipes, while a tax of 25% would apply to pork, pork products and recycled aluminum. The tariffs would come into effect once a public consultation period ends on March 31.   China said it would also pursue its own case against the United States at the World Trade Organization.   "Ignoring the rules of the WTO and ignoring the appeal of the broad business community, the United States has decided to go it alone," the Commerce Ministry said in a second statement on Friday.   The last 24 hours have seen a significant ratcheting up in trade tensions between the United States and China.   Trump has repeatedly accused Beijing of unfair trade practices like currency manipulation -- which helps China make its exports more affordable -- and of stealing US intellectual property. The president has frequently taken aim at China's huge surplus in goods trade with the United States, which reached $375 billion last year.   But Friday's tariffs are the first time the Trump administration has directly targeted China with big trade sanctions. Previous measures against steel, aluminum and solar panels have applied to imports from other countries too.   China has repeatedly said that it doesn't want a trade war but warned that it would take "firm and necessary" countermeasures if necessary.   It reiterated that message Friday. "China does not want a trade war, but China is not afraid of a trade war. We are confident in our capability to face up to any challenge," the Commerce Ministry said.   -- CNN's Steven Jiang contributed to this report.   China: We would fight a trade war 'to the end'
China isn't doing much to cool concerns about a trade war with the United States. "China would fight to the end to defend its own legitimate interests with all necessary measures," China's embassy in Washington said in a statement late Thursday. "China is not afraid of and will not recoil from a trade war."   President Trump announced earlier that his administration would impose tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese exports to the United States to retaliate against Chinese theft of intellectual property, including software and patents. The administration will also restrict Chinese investment in the United States.   The statement from the Chinese embassy said Trump's trade action was "self-defeating" and would hurt American companies, consumers and financial markets.   "We urge the US to cease and desist, make cautious decisions, and avoid placing China-U.S. trade relations in danger with the purpose of hurting others that eventually end up hurting itself," the statement said.   Fears of a trade war between the world's two largest economies rocked the stock market on Thursday. The Dow fell 724 points, or almost 3%.   The administration said it would announce in the next 15 days which products would be subject to tariffs.   After a seven-month investigation, the office of the US Trade Representative concluded that China hurts US technology companies in a variety of ways.   For example, when American tech companies want access to China's market, China forces them to enter joint ventures with its own companies, the USTR said. The American companies are forced to share software, patents and tech secrets, which Chinese firms then steal and use to push the Americans out of the market.   The Chinese embassy in Washington said that China "has demonstrated sincerity in making reasonable suggestions to the US, and has made great efforts to address the current trade imbalance between China and the US."   US officials widely agree that China has stolen US technology and trade secrets. Many economists say the administration's diagnosis of the problem is correct. But they fear that widespread US tariffs, and Chinese retaliation, will raise prices significantly for Americans, hurt the economy and kill jobs.   Trump administration officials say fears of a trade war are overblown. However, they concede they're worried about retaliation.   Trump's crackdown on China came shortly after US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer announced that more countries will be exempt from the steel and aluminum tariffs that Trump announced three weeks ago.   Those penalties — 10% on aluminum imports and 25% on steel imports — take effect Friday. But they will not apply to the European Union, South Korea, Argentina, Brazil or Australia. Mexico and Canada were already exempted.  China: We will hit back if US announces new tariffs
Beijing has renewed a warning that it will retaliate if President Donald Trump goes through with plans to slap new tariffs on Chinese goods worth billions of dollars. "China will certainly take all necessary measures to resolutely defend its legitimate rights and interests," if the United States imposes new restrictions, the Ministry of Commerce said in a statement on Thursday.   Trump on Thursday directed the US trade representative to level tariffs on about $50 billion worth of Chinese imports. In addition to the tariffs, the United States also plans to impose new investment restrictions, take action against China at the World Trade Organization and the Treasury Department also will propose additional measures.   Trump has repeatedly accused Beijing of unfair trade practices like currency manipulation -- which helps China make its exports more affordable -- and of stealing US intellectual property. The president has frequently taken aim at China's huge goods trade surplus with the United States, which reached $375 billion last year.   The tariffs would be the first time the Trump administration has directly targeted China with big trade sanctions. Previous measures against steel, aluminum and solar panels have applied to imports from other countries too.   China has repeatedly said that it doesn't want a trade war but warned that it would take "firm and necessary" countermeasures if necessary.   "It's unrealistic and unreasonable to demand complete equality in trade," Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters on Thursday. "We hope that both sides can sit down and talk calmly."   Beijing hasn't offered any specifics on how it could respond, but it does have a number of options.   For example, it is one of the biggest buyers of US crops, including soybeans or sorghum. China could put a tariff on those, or decide to buy more soy from places like Brazil and Argentina.   Boeing (BA) might also be vulnerable in the longer term. It's the single largest US exporter, and China is a critical market for the company. Chinese airlines could place more orders for Airbus (EADSF) planes in future.   China is also the biggest creditor of the United States: It owns more US government bonds than any other country. It recently cut some of its US debt holdings, though investors don't expect China to immediately dump its US debt.   China's Global Times, a state tabloid that often voices nationalist views, said in an editorial this week that any suggestion China would suffer more than the United States in a trade war was "arrogant and naïve."   It pointed to soybeans as one area where it could put the squeeze on US exporters.   "If China halves the proportion of the US soybean imports, it will not have any major impact on China, but the US bean farmers will complain. They were mostly Trump supporters. Let them confront Trump," the newspaper said.   -- CNN's Daniel Shane contributed to this article.   Trump grants tariff exemptions for EU and others on steel and aluminum
President Trump is granting more exemptions to his steel and aluminum tariffs — and dodging a trade war with key US allies. The European Union, Argentina, Brazil, South Korea and Australia will not be subject to the trade penalties when they take effect Friday, US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer told a Senate committee Thursday.   Exemptions for Canada and Mexico were previously announced.   The announcement ends weeks of speculation and uncertainty, and it dramatically shrinks the impact of what first appeared to be sweeping tariffs.   Trump announced on March 1 that imported steel would be taxed at 25%, and foreign aluminum at 10%.   The European Union explicitly said it would retaliate with tariffs on US exports. Canada and Mexico threatened tariffs, too. Brazil also hinted at retaliation. Those threats, among others, raised fears of a global trade war.   But the exemptions mean that the top four steel exporters to the United States, and four of the top seven aluminum exporters, will be left out of the tariffs, according to US government data and Panjiva, a research firm owned by S&P Global.   The Trump administration claims imported steel and aluminum pose a risk to US national security. Many US allies heavily lobbied for exemptions earlier this week at the meeting of G20 finance ministers meetings in Buenos Aires.   Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin met with more than a dozen leaders there, and trade was the top agenda item, though it wasn't on the official G20 schedule.   While free traders' worst fears on these tariffs will not be realized, Trump is expected to announce additional tariffs on China on Thursday for its theft of US intellectual property. A trade conflict between the US and China, the world's two largest economies, has many people worried.  How a trade war could hurt these US states 
The United States is on the verge of a possible trade war. The Trump administration imposed tariffs on at least $60 billion in Chinese imports Thursday. Those will come on top of the controversial steel and aluminum tariffs that go into effect Friday.   The moves have producers in almost every state bracing for blowback. Big manufacturers could pay more for the steel they use to make plane engines, auto parts and building materials. And American farmers could be in the crosshairs of China, a big importer of US crops.   While China has not said which US exports it might target, agricultural products have historically been a favorite for retaliation.   Most recently, China launched an investigation into US sorghum exports in response to an earlier round of tariffs imposed on Chinese washing machines and solar panels. The United States sold nearly $1 billion worth of sorghum to China in 2017. Should China impose duties on those exports, states like Kansas, which account for nearly half of the nation's sorghum production, could take a sizable financial hit.   In response to Trump's plan to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum, the European Union published a list of hundreds of US-made products, ranging from peanut butter to pleasure boats, that it would slap with duties.   That would have hurt any number of states that rely heavily on overseas sales of those products. However, on Thursday, US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer told a Senate committee that the EU, Argentina, Brazil, South Korea and Australia will not be subject to the trade penalties once they take effect Friday.   Based on trade data collected by the U.S. Census, here are the export products each state depends on the most, and which tariffs would have the biggest effect.   Trade war targets     In 2017, airplanes and airplane parts were the top exports for 17 states, by dollar value. That includes traditional aircraft-producing states like Washington, which exported $41.8 billion worth of planes and parts last year, as well as lesser-known aviation hubs like Kansas and Maryland.   Analysts say that Boeing, which sells billions of dollars worth of airplanes to China, could be a top target for retaliation.   These states would also suffer from the steel tariffs themselves, since steel is a main ingredient for airplane manufacturing. A report by a trade consulting firm released this month found that industries that consume a lot of steel and aluminum, including manufacturing and construction, could shed nearly 100,000 jobs as a result of the tariffs.   With the shale revolution of the last decade, oil and gas have also become important US exports. Crude oil or refined petroleum — which may have been made from oil produced elsewhere — is the top export for six states, including Texas and North Dakota.   Meanwhile, coal is still the top export in Virginia, West Virginia, and Pennsylvania. Among the top overseas buyers of US coal is India, which could be stung by the steel and aluminum tariffs if it does not receive an exemption.   Four states have various kinds of electronics as top exports. In Oregon, circuits, processors and controllers are both the state's top export and import, because of all the final production work for semiconductors done by Intel (INTC), according to Business Oregon -- the state's economic development agency. China is the top destination for Oregon's semiconductors, making the state yet another potential target for retaliation.   Many states' top imports are related to their top exports. Utah, for example, imports gold that it refines and re-exports. New York does the same with diamonds, which come in raw and then are shipped as a finished product. Tariffs on any of those imports could make exports more expensive as well.     Does D.C. really love peanuts?   Agricultural products show up as the number one export in only four states: Corn from Iowa, beef from Nebraska and Colorado and lobsters from Maine.   However, that may be skewed by how the Census collects its data: From the "origin of movement," which isn't always the same as the place where something was produced. That's particularly important for crops and livestock, which are often consolidated at a central point before being shipped.   It's also important when thinking about import statistics, since the point of import isn't always where a product ends up. California and Texas import an enormous amount of avocados from Mexico, for example, a large portion of which are ultimately destined for consumers in other states.   Tracking imports and exports according to their origin of movement can turn up especially surprising results in places that don't export much at all in the way of goods. Often, it reflects quirks of accounting more than actual trade with foreign markets.   Take Washington, D.C., for example. Going by the Census data, the capital's largest import is peanuts, whole and processed. But that's only because a peanut importing company called Ingredients Distribution International LLC books all its sales at a second floor office in the city's Dupont Circle neighborhood.   "In the District, our entire inventory of peanuts doesn't amount to more than 30 pounds, which is kept on hand in a freezer for sampling purposes only," says Alex Slowatek, the company's president. "We don't distribute anything in D.C., nor do we have any customers in D.C., nor even in the surrounding area."   It's the same story with D.C.'s exports. On paper, D.C.'s top export is ammunition — but that's likely only because of all the procurement orders filed by foreign embassies, says Jonathan Brady, the international program manager at the District's Department of Small and Local Business Development.   "Whoever's filling out that information online now is indicating the origin state as the District, which is inaccurate, because we know that manufacturing isn't taking place here," Brady says.   What D.C. does export a lot of: Services, such as architecture and consulting, that don't show up in the Census' trade data at all.   "Those are the firms that have something exportable and can really compete overseas," Brady says.   So far, those services haven't typically been targets for retaliation in the same way that goods have — so D.C. may come through this imminent trade war relatively unscathed.  China is targeting American cherries, pistachios and sparkling wine 
China is targeting American fruit, wine and pork producers. The Chinese government said that tariffs on about $3 billion worth of US imports are going into effect Monday. The tariffs will hit 128 products ranging from pork to steel pipes.   The sanctions are in response to President Donald Trump's tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum from China and several other countries.   China will put 15% tariffs on American cherries, almonds, wine, ethanol and steel pipes, and 25% on pork meat and recycled aluminum.   Trump has also announced separately that he would impose tariffs on $50 billion worth of imports to punish China for stealing American tech and trade secrets.   The US Department of Agriculture provided CNNMoney with 2017 export values for many of those products that China would target to retaliate for the steel and aluminum tariffs. The data was compiled by the Census Bureau and is categorized by federal commodity and shipping standards.   Fruit: $260.1 million exported to China, 6% of all US fruit exports   Cherries: $121.7 million Oranges: $48.5 million Grapes (fresh): $22.2 million Grapes (dried): $18.9 million Apples (fresh): $18.4 million Apricots (fresh): $5.5 million  Plums: $5.1 million Prunes (dried): $4.5 million Strawberries: $3 million Fruit and nuts: $2.3 million Lemons and limes (fresh and dried): $1.3 million Sour cherries: $1.3 million Pears (fresh): $744,000  Figs: $457,000 Citrus fruits (fresh): $373,000  Grapefruit: $361,000 Cranberries: $232,000 Apples (dried): $136,000 Mandarins: $93,000 Peaches and nectarines: $56,000 Wilkings: $33,000   Wine: $74.6 million of wine exported to China, 5% of all US wine exports   Grape wines (in containers holding 2 liters or less): $67.6 million Grape wines (in containers holding 2-10 liters): $3.7 million Grape wines (in containers holding more than 10 liters): $2.1 million Grape wine (unfermented): $674,000 Grape wines (sparkling): $526,000   Pork: $487.9 million exported to China, 9% of all US pork exports    Swine offal (frozen): $250.6 million Swine cuts (frozen): $166 million Swine hams (frozen): $69.4 million Swine carcasses (frozen): $1.3 million Swine cuts (fresh or chilled): $286,000 Swine hams (fresh or chilled): $147,000 Swine livers (frozen): 0 Swine carcasses (fresh or chilled): 0   Nuts: $224.9 million exported to China, 3% of all US nuts exports    Pistachios (in shell): $37.9 million Nuts Nesoi: $35.8 million Almonds (in shell): $24.3 million Walnuts (no shell): $16.8 million  Walnuts (in shell): $15.5 million Macadamia nuts (in shell): $9.4 million Macadamia nuts (shelled): $76,000 Mixtures of nuts: $5.4 million Almonds (no shell): $4.9 million Hazelnuts (in shell): $2 million Pistachios (shelled): $1.9 million Cashew nuts (without the shell): $962,000 Cashew nuts (in shell): $9,000 Coconuts (in shell): $3,000 Brazil nuts: 0 Coconuts dessicated: 0   Ginseng: $22.6 million exported to China, 40% of all US ginseng exports    Ethanol alcohol: $32.2 million exported to China, 3% of all US ethanol alcohol exports  China won't rule out scaling back US Treasury purchases
The Chinese ambassador to the United States would not rule out his nation scaling back the purchase of US government debt if the two nations end up in a trade war. When asked by Bloomberg Television if China is considering scaling back its purchases of US debt, ambassador Cui Tiankai responded, "We are looking at all options." "We don't want to have a trade war with anybody," he said earlier in the interview. "We are still trying to avoid one. But if a trade war is forced on us, we have to fight back. We will take all the measures necessary."   After the Trump administration announced tariffs against China on Thursday amid allegations of intellectual property theft, there are fears that a trade war between the world's two largest economies.   China is the largest foreign US bond holder, with $1.17 trillion in holdings. But China trimmed those holdings by 1.4% in January compared to December, the latest data shows.   The US debt that China buys helps finance the rising federal government deficit. If China suddenly stopped buying bonds, the interest rates that the government pays on those bonds would soar in order to attract more investors. China's bond purchases also helps keep interest rates lower for American consumers and businesses, since many forms of borrowing, such as mortgage rates, typically move in line with bond rates.   "We believe any unilateral and protectionist moves would hurt everybody, including the United States itself," said Cui. "It would certainly hurt the daily life of American middle class people, and the American companies and the financial markets.   But most experts doubt that China would cut its bond purchases enough to move Treasury rates. If it did so, that would reduce the value of the $1 trillion in bonds it already holds. And the large trade gap between the United States and China means that China collects far more dollars for its exports than it pays for American goods and services that it purchases. It has to do something with those excess dollars, and purchasing US government debt is an efficient way to use them.   The rates on the benchmark 10-year bond was little changed Friday after Cui's remarks.  Trump's low-profile trade leader gains more power
President Trump is about to get tough on China and other trading partners. But the powerful figure carrying out those orders is someone you've probably never heard of. He rarely does interviews and never tweets, but US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer is arguably President Trump's most important trade official.   His team and his influence are growing, and he has an expanding portfolio of responsibilities at the core of the issue Trump credits with securing his election victory.   At Lighthizer's recommendation, Trump announced a plan Thursday to impose tariffs on Chinese exports to the United States to retaliate for China's theft of US intellectual property.   Officials say the tariffs will target $50 billion of Chinese goods. Lighthizer's office said in a document Thursday that the trade penalties will include 25% tariffs on communications technology, aerospace products and machinery. A full list is expected within two weeks.   Trump also directed Lighthizer to play a key role in the execution of global tariffs on steel and aluminum, which take effect Friday.   And while all this is happening, Lighthizer is the lead negotiator for the United States on talks to rewrite NAFTA, the free trade pact with Mexico and Canada. He's also leading trade talks between the US and South Korea.   On trade, Trump hears an array of other voices, including those of Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and White House trade adviser Peter Navarro. But Lighthizer's appears to carry the most influence.   "He's keeping a low profile, but he's building his reputation within the administration and with President Trump," says Gary Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. "Lighthizer really knows the details and is probably the best guy to be doing the negotiations" on trade deals and tariffs.   Hufbauer added that Lighthizer knows much more about trade laws than Ross, and that "Navarro is more of an ax guy. Lighthizer is more of a surgeon."   A White House spokesperson told CNN that Trump deeply values all members of his trade team, and that Ross' "real world know-how" in the private sector plays a critical role in trade policy and negotiations.     From tech theft to NAFTA   Trump does seem to lean toward Lighthizer's expertise.   He made Lighthizer the point of contact for countries seeking to get out of the steel and aluminum tariffs. When European Union and Japanese officials demanded exemptions, they met with Lighthizer in Brussels, even though these tariffs are technically coming from Ross' Commerce Department.   Canada and Mexico were granted early exemptions. Lighthizer told a Senate committee on Thursday that the EU, South Korea, Brazil, Argentina and Australia would also be excluded from the trade penalties.   Lighthizer, 70, has brushed aside concerns about escalating retaliation.   "The response that we're going to start a trade war is nonsense," he told Fox News in February.   Lighthizer also led the investigation into China's alleged theft of US intellectual property, such as software and patents.   Members of both parties agree China should be penalized for stealing US tech innovations. But they are divided about the right remedy. Lighthizer's solution was tariffs, and possibly restricting Chinese investment in the United States.   Lighthizer finally has a high-level team, too. Congress confirmed four high-ranking deputies at USTR in March. Lighthizer says a bigger team will help him execute Trump's trade agenda.   It's typical for the USTR to be the point person on the White House's trade agenda. But Trump is the first president in decades to make tariffs a focal point of his campaign platform, magnifying Lighthizer's importance.   Two of a kind or odd bedfellows?    Trump and Lighthizer's paths to the White House run both parallel and perpendicular. Both have lambasted America's trade practices for years, but Lighthizer isn't the type of negotiator Trump promised voters he'd bring on board.   In a 2010 Op-Ed in The New York Times, Lighthizer blamed lawmakers for their "failure to make free trade work for America." Lighthizer declined to comment for this article.   Trump hit a nerve on the campaign trail, speaking to Rust Belt manufacturing workers who feel that bad trade agreements have doomed their industries.   "We have people who are political hacks negotiating our trade deals," Trump said during a 2016 campaign debate.   In a 2015 interview with Fox News, he said, "I know the best negotiators. I'm in New York."   With that in mind, Trump promised voters he would "drain the swamp" by getting rid of Washington lifers in White House ranks.   But Lighthizer has been a career Washington lawyer at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. He went to Georgetown for his undergraduate and graduate degrees.   Lighthizer chose another Washingtonian, assistant US Trade Representative John Melle, to lead NAFTA talks for the administration. Melle helped get the original NAFTA, which Trump slams as the worst deal ever, passed through Congress in 1993 while with the Clinton administration.   — CNN's Jeremy Diamond contributed to this report.  The world is on the brink of a trade war
The United States and China have fired the dramatic opening shots of what could become a trade war. But it's what happens next that matters most. President Donald Trump announced on Thursday that he would impose tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese exports to the United States. Beijing quickly outlined new import taxes of its own on US products worth $3 billion.   The increasingly bellicose rhetoric suggests that further escalation is possible: Trump described his actions targeting China as "the first of many," while Beijing said "it is impolite not to reciprocate" and promised a "fight to the end."   Analysts are worried. China's response Friday was framed as retaliation for steel and aluminum tariffs Trump unveiled earlier in March, not his Thursday broadside. That means a second strike could be in the works.   If Trump unveils yet more punitive measures, Beijing is almost certain to respond. That could be followed by another round, and another. That pattern of retaliation is what economists call a trade war.   "The main source of lingering concern is uncertainty over what happens next," said Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at Capital Economics.   What Trump wants   It's difficult to predict how the spat will evolve, but there may be clues in what's happened so far.   Trump said repeatedly during his campaign that he would take tough stance on trade with China. He said the United States had been ripped off, and he would take action to reduce the US trade deficit with China.   In recent weeks, he has demanded that China cut the deficit by $100 billion.   In addition to steel and aluminum, the Trump administration has targeted imported washing machines and solar panels with taxes that would affect China. It has not said which products will be hit by the latest round of tariffs.   Trump has framed these and other actions as part of a negotiation. Several US allies, for example, were given an 11th hour temporary reprieve from the steel and aluminum tariffs.   "When it comes to China, the US is looking for a large deal that addresses the trade balance and liberalizes China's market," said Scott Kennedy, a China expert at the Center for Strategic & International Studies.   Williams said that Beijing is unlikely to change its trade practices, which have given its companies a leg up.   The big question: Are the actions Trump has already taken enough to satisfy the president and his supporters?   "The key uncertainty now is whether President Trump sees [the tariffs] as an end in themselves, or whether they are followed by a further escalation when, as seems likely, they fail to narrow the trade imbalance significantly," said Williams.   The response from China   It takes two countries to have a trade war.   So analysts are watching very closely to see how Beijing responds in the coming weeks and months.   China has plenty of options to hit back at the United States. It is one of the biggest buyers of US crops, including soybeans or sorghum. China could put a tax on those, or buy more soy from places like Brazil and Argentina.   Beijing could also slap tariffs on American aircraft, doing great damage to US companies such as Boeing (BA). Or it could simply direct its state-backed airlines to buy more from Airbus (EADSF) in future.   China's retaliation has, so far, been limited.   It's possible that more measures will be announced when the scale and impact of the latest round of tariffs from Washington become clear. Still, China knows it has a lot to lose if things get out of hand.   "[Beijing] may want to appear to be standing up to foreign bullying in the coming weeks. But at this stage, they can afford to be fairly relaxed and their response is likely to be limited," said Williams. "China's leaders have no desire to see the global trading system further destabilized."     How to avoid a trade war   Cooler heads may prevail if Washington and Beijing look at the bigger picture.   The actions announced so far will have relatively little impact on the world's two largest economies. Capital Economics estimates, for example, that the new US tariffs will cause China's GDP to decline by just 0.1%.   A full blown trade war would have much more profound economic implications for the United States and China. It would also drag down global trade and put vulnerable economies under pressure.   US allies are calling on the Trump administration to change its tactics, and address trade grievances through discussion and in accordance with global trade rules.   "Preserving the global rules-based system for trade is what we should all be working towards," EU trade commissioner Cecilia Malmström tweeted Friday.   Roberto Azevêdo, director general of the World Trade Organization, urged countries to resolve their trade disputes by using the mechanisms of the WTO.   "Actions taken outside these collective processes greatly increase the risk of escalation in a confrontation that will have no winners, and which could quickly lead to a less stable trading system," he said on Friday.   -- CNN's Patrick Gillespie, Daniel Shane and Steven Jiang contributed to this report.   What Trump doesn't get about Obamacare and health insurers' profits
The Trump administration has once again pointed to health insurers' robust stock market performance as proof that they are profiting from Obamacare. The White House's Council of Economic Advisers issued a report this week declaring that insurers have made a lot of money since the Affordable Care Act took effect, primarily thanks to large premium increases and generous federal funding of premium subsidies and Medicaid expansion. The release coincided with an unsuccessful attempt in the Senate to restore funding for a second set of Obamacare subsidies -- which helped to reduce low-income enrollees' deductibles and co pays -- that President Donald Trump eliminated last fall.   "Despite an initial rough patch in the ACA marketplaces, the ACA Medicaid coverage expansion and subsidies to insurers have resulted in a large increase in health insurer profits," the four-page report said.   The council's main argument: That the stock prices of health insurance companies rose by 272% since the health reform law's implementation in January 2014 -- more than double the gain of the S&P 500 over that period.   This is a flawed rationale that the Trump administration has used before.   While it's true that Obamacare insurers are finally becoming profitable, they aren't exactly rolling in the dough because of their involvement in the individual market, experts say. And carriers' stock prices are a poor measure of their performance on the exchanges given how many other factors contribute to their bottom line.   Let's take a closer look:   In the first few years of Obamacare, many insurers priced their plans too low, resulting in big losses. This prompted many carriers -- including most of the large publicly traded ones -- to downsize or exit the market completely. There are just over 130 insurers on the exchanges this year, down from 237 two years earlier, according to data from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.   Anthem (ANTM) is the only large public insurer with a sizable presence on the exchanges, but even it pulled out of several states for 2018.   At least two years of big rate hikes have helped the insurers that remain get on more solid financial footing. Several recent studies, including ones by the Kaiser Family Foundation and S&P Global, have found that many insurers' premiums in 2017 were more than adequate to cover policyholders' medical expenses.   The average monthly gross margin per member was nearly $79 in the third quarter of 2017, up from $9.90 two years earlier, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. (The gross margin doesn't take into account administrative expenses.)   Several insurers have reported their first profits in their Obamacare businesses. Highmark Health in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, announced earlier this week that its Affordable Care Act division generated income for the first time in 2017, calling it "a substantial turnaround."   "The fact that it has taken so long to achieve some level of profitability speaks to the challenges that have long existed in the individual market," said Kristine Grow, a spokesperson for America's Health Insurance Plans, an industry trade association.   Still, the individual market is not likely to be a font of big profits for insurers. It's expected to generate margins of only 1% or 2%, which is why many of the larger public carriers left, said Deep Banerjee, a director at S&P Global. The employer insurance market, on the other hand, generally produces profit margins of 8% to 10%.   The Affordable Care Act also boosted enrollment in insurers' Medicaid divisions, which are generally profitable, experts said. States are increasingly contracting with insurers to manage the health care needs of their Medicaid enrollees, said Larry Levitt, a senior vice president at Kaiser. This includes the more than 11 million low-income adults who entered the program through Medicaid expansion.   Nearly two-thirds of plans in states that expanded Medicaid said that it has had a positive effect on their financial performance, according to Kaiser's 2017 Survey of Medicaid Managed Care Plans.   As for the insurers' stock prices -- that's usually driven more by their employer and Medicare divisions, which are typically much larger, as well as by carriers' efforts to control costs, Banerjee said.  Apple's Tim Cook in China: 'Exceptional' countries embrace trade 
China and the United States are on the brink of a trade war — and Apple chief Tim Cook is calling on the countries to deescalate. Cook attended the China Development Business Forum in Beijing Saturday, where business leaders link up to talk policy with government officials. He made the case for "calm heads," days after the United States and China fired the opening shots of what could become a trade war between the world's two biggest economies.   "What I've seen over my lifetime is that countries that embrace openness, that embrace trade, that embrace diversity are the countries that do exceptional — and the countries that don't, don't," Cook said during a panel.   On the same panel, Larry Fink, the CEO of investment giant BlackRock (BLK), delivered an impassioned defense of globalization.   "I've been in this business now 42 years," he said. "I've seen the wonders of how humanity has grown through globalization. Globalization is one of the greatest human achievements."   The comments come after a tense week between Washington and Beijing.   On Thursday, US President Donald Trump announced plans to impose tariffs on about $50 billion to $60 billion worth of Chinese imports to retaliate for intellectual property theft. Beijing later warned that it may target American fruit, wine and pork products -- a move it said was push back against hefty tariffs on steel and aluminum imports announced earlier this month.   Cook on Saturday also encouraged businesses to keep lines of communication open abroad.   "My belief is that businesses should engage with governments in the countries that they're doing business, whether they agree or disagree," Cook said. "You can be assured that this is a topic that I'm very passionate about and that I have weighed in on, and will continue to."   Cook added that he is "cognizant" that international trade policies haven't always benefited everyone.   Fink echoed that. He said he recognizes some areas of the world "have been left behind" by globalization — but "I do not believe a trade war is the answer," he added.   "Hopefully through a dialogue between our two great nations, we can find commonality, we can rebuild trust, and we can build better futures," Fink said.   --CNN's Serenitie Wang and Paul La Monica contributed reporting.  Medicaid is a lifeline for nearly half of this county's residents
On a crisp sunny day, Tyson Toledo, a precocious 5-year-old boy, hobbled into a private health clinic to have his infected foot examined. Pediatrician Gayle Harrison told his mother to continue to apply antibiotic ointment and reminded them to come back if the swelling and redness worsened.   The appointment at Rehoboth McKinley Christian Health Care Services' outpatient center in Gallup, New Mexico, comes at no charge for the Toledo family, who live 30 miles away on the Navajo Nation Reservation. That's because Tyson is covered by Medicaid, the government health insurance program for the poor.   New Mexico leads all other states in Medicaid enrollment, with 43% of its residents on the program. Nearly a third of the 900,000 New Mexico beneficiaries joined as part of the Affordable Care Act's option to expand Medicaid.   Kaiser Health News is examining Medicaid's role in the U.S. as the health care program comes under renewed fire from Republicans who generally want to put the brakes on it, even as many Democrats credit the expansion with reducing the number of uninsured Americans to historic lows. Conservatives view the costs as prohibitive for state and federal budgets.   Nina Owcharenko, a senior research fellow in health policy with the conservative Heritage Foundation, said the enrollment boost is "not a positive story." While the high enrollment underscores the pervasive poverty in New Mexico, it also signals surging costs for taxpayers, she said.   "I am growing more concerned about the cost of shifting Medicaid dollars to the federal government and without a budget cap on the program," she said. "That is a dangerous fiscal course for the country."   In Gallup, a city of about 23,000 people, Medicaid is as much a part of the fabric as Native American-crafted jewelry and green chile sauce. Recipients include the waitress at the downtown bar, the clerk at a loan store and the maid at the hotel.   And multi-generational families are common in Gallup and surrounding McKinley County. Tyson's mother, grandmother, aunt and uncle also are enrolled in Medicaid.   Some 52% of the county's residents have coverage through the program. That's the highest rate among U.S. counties with at least 65,000 people, according to a KHN analysis of Census data.   "Pretty much everybody is on Medicaid here," said Libby Garcia, 36, who lives in a trailer overlooking downtown Gallup.   Garcia, who works as a custodian at a local Head Start agency, quit a second job cleaning businesses because that extra income would put her over the eligibility level for coverage. She can't afford private insurance, and Medicaid gives her free care at a community health center and insulin and other medicines for her diabetes without out-of-pocket costs, she said.   McKinley, where more than 40% of the population lives below the federal poverty level of $12,140 for an individual, is the nation's only county of at least 65,000 people in which more than half the population is on Medicaid.   In McKinley County, many residents see Medicaid as vital. There's no stigma around it, and enrollees and providers speak positively about it.   The heavy concentration of Medicaid in this high-altitude desert is a result of two factors: the high poverty rate and the Indian Health Service's relentless work to enroll patients in the program.   Large swaths of McKinley County lie within the Navajo Nation, the largest Indian reservation in the United States. Nearly 80% of McKinley County's 75,000 residents are Native American.   Medicaid enrollees in Gallup say the coverage has opened up new opportunities for them to get more timely care, especially surgery and mental health services. It has been vital in combating high rates of obesity, teen birth, suicide and diabetes, according to local health officials.   For the Gallup Indian Medical Center — the main Indian Health Service facility in the area — Medicaid has stoked the local budget and eased overcrowding. When patients on Medicaid are treated there, the center is reimbursed by the program. That money supplements the Indian Health Service's annual federal grant, which is set by Congress.   Last year, Medicaid funding made up 34% of the center's $207 million budget. Among all US hospitals, Medicaid provided only 18.5% of revenue.   "Medicaid has become the safety net for the Indian Health Service," said John Ratmeyer, deputy chief of pediatrics at the Gallup Indian Medical Center. "It's providing an extra pod of money to pay for services not within our hospital system."   Medicaid this year is projected to add more than $800 million to Indian Health Service hospital funding, supplementing the $4.8 billion in annual federal appropriation.   The county has a host of medical challenges related to its economic problems. According to a 2016 report sponsored by Rehoboth McKinley, the county's suicide rate for ages 10 and up is twice the US average, alcohol-related deaths are nearly four times higher than the national rate, and teen birth rates are three times the US average. Average life expectancy in McKinley is 74 years, four years less than the typical US life span.   Without Medicaid covering doctor visits and substance abuse treatment, the situation would likely be worse, said Larry Curley, director of program development for Rehoboth McKinley.   This kind of care doesn't come cheap. The federal government paid the full cost of the expansion through 2016, but now New Mexico and other states have to pick up a 5% share. To deal with rising costs, the state in 2017 began cutting the fees it pays hospitals, doctors and other providers.   Asked about her Medicaid health plan while at a popular doughnut shop, Corrine Rosales, 60, of Gallup, said it's invaluable for her and her two young nieces, Mya and Destiny. Medicaid pays for her diabetes medications and helped Mya get treated for attention-deficit disorder.   "I don't know what we would do without it," she said.   Kaiser Health News (KHN) is a nonprofit news service covering health issues. It is an editorially independent program of the Kaiser Family Foundation that is not affiliated with Kaiser Permanente.  Few noticed, but Congress just banned restaurants from skimming tips
Restaurant servers dodged a bullet this week with a provision tucked into the $1.3 trillion federal spending bill. Late last year, the Department of Labor proposed a rule that would have authorized restaurants to share tips between servers and cooks. That would allow employers to keep some tip money for themselves, as long as each worker made at least the full federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour.   Workers' rights groups argued the rule change would lower the pay of those who work at restaurants, hotels and bars. Opponents of the rule held splashy public protests. The Labor Department received more than 218,000 mostly negative comments on the proposal.   It appeared to have worked. The spending bill, which President Donald Trump signed into law on Friday, includes a section that makes it clear that employers may not pocket any portion of tips that diners leave for workers.   "We beat them," said Saru Jayaraman, president of the nonprofit Restaurant Opportunities Center. "I think they realized how outrageous what they were proposing sounded to the public, and basically they backed down."   Representatives for the restaurant industry, however, are also pleased.   The National Restaurant Association said it never asked for employers to be allowed to keep tips in the first place. Angelo Amador, senior VP at the trade group, argued that most employers wouldn't skim tips even if they were allowed to.   "A decision by a restaurant to retain some or all of the customer tips rather than distributing them to the hourly staff would be unpopular with employees and guests alike, and it could severely damage the public's perception of the restaurant," Amador wrote in his comment on the proposed rule.   The left-leaning Economic Policy Institute disagreed, saying that many employers take a portion of tips even in places where it's forbidden, and would do so even more often if it were legal. In a recent report, it estimated that servers would lose some $5.8 billion in tips annually to their employers.   The language in the spending bill also effectively does another big thing: It allows employers to pool tips and distribute them among staff, as long as the employer also pays the full minimum wage. Many owners have long sought to boost the pay of kitchen workers and bussers by forcing servers to share their tips.   "We want to ensure that servers, bussers, dishwashers, cooks, and others who work as a team to provide great customer service in the industry have access to share in tips left by customers, as this legislation clearly allows," said Amador.   That's fine with labor advocates at the National Employment Law Project, who say that pooling tips is a good way to create wage equity, as long workers are paid the full minimum wage and tips aren't shared with managers or any other supervisors. "We enthusiastically support this compromise," said Judy Conti, the group's director of federal affairs.   Going forward, however, there may be less agreement between workers' rights advocates and the National Restaurant Association.   Currently, the federal minimum wage for workers who get tips is $2.13 an hour. Seven states have done away with the two tiers and made the minimum for tipped workers the same as it is for employees who earn regular wages.   Many cities and states have already raised their overall minimum wages, as the federal level has remained unchanged since 2009. The question of eliminating lower tipped minimum wages will be on the ballot this year in Washington, D.C., and Michigan and New York is considering the proposal.   All of these efforts have generally come over the objections of the restaurant industry, which argues that the economy and nature of the jobs have changed.   "The minimum wage, with all due respect, is a 1938 income support system for a workforce that worked in manufacturing and agriculture," said Cicely Simpson, executive vice president for public affairs at the National Restaurant Association, at a panel discussion last month. "In our workforce, we have people who drive an Uber during the day and work in restaurants at night. They have no desire to spend their entire career in an entire industry."   Simpson later softened her stance and said that the National Restaurant Association would like to see policies such as the minimum wage and overtime thresholds be "updated," not trashed entirely.  What happens when the world's two biggest economies turn on each other
America and China, the world's two largest economies, may soon be in a trade war. Leaders from the two nations have announced tariffs on each other. But the real fear among businesses, investors and lawmakers: Escalation.   This could just be the beginning -- "the first of many" trade actions, as President Trump put it Thursday.   Trump announced plans Thursday to impose tariffs of 25% on $50 billion of Chinese exports. On Friday, Trump's global tariffs on steel and aluminum, which includes China, went into effect. Responding to those two latter tariffs, China said it would impose tariffs on $3 billion of US exports to China.   If it ends there, the skirmish is unlikely to have serious global implications. But the pain of higher costs and prices will be felt by workers, businesses and consumers, both directly and indirectly.   Here's what we know, and what might be in store in the future.   The US will hit Chinese tech and industry   The United States will impose a tariff of 25% on steel coming from China and a 10% tariff on its aluminum. Most nations will be subjected to same US-imposed duties.   The Trump administration will also slap a 25% tariff on a range of unannounced products from China, including, but not limited to, communication technology, aerospace, information, and machinery. This comes after a US investigation concluded China systematically discriminated against US tech companies operating in that country.   These are key trading items. In 2017, the US imported about $150 billion worth of products from China across all those categories. The imports were heavily weighted toward computer and semiconductor equipment, according to US government data and Panjiva, a research firm recently acquired by S&P Global Market Intelligence.   China is hitting US farmers and vineyards   China announced Friday it would put tariffs on 128 US exports in response to the steel and aluminum tariffs, according to China's Commerce Ministry. More tariffs could come in retaliation to the US tariffs related to the tech probe.   China's tariffs on US goods would mostly target wine, fruit, pork, recycled aluminum and nuts. A full list has not yet been published, but the tariffs would take effect March 31. Tariffs would range from 15% to 25%, depending on the product.   All those imports total $3 billion per year, a relatively small amount.   That's just where it begins, though.   China is the top customer for America's 300,000 soybean farmers. China bought 61% of US soybean exports last year, according to the US Soybean Export Council. So far, China has not mentioned it would tariff US soy, but the foreign ministry ominously reminded reporters last week of that figure.   China also doesn't have to slap tariffs on American farmers to punish the US. It could simply do more business with South America.   Brazilian soy exports to China surged nearly 35% last year compared to the year prior while US soy was only up 2%, according to Panjiva. Brazil ships more soy to China, its top trade partner, than the United States does. Experts say the surge last year was not related to trade policy, but it shows how China has another alternative to US soy.   China owns more US government debt than any other nation -- and its appetite could cool    China owns $1.17 trillion of US government debt, according to the Treasury Department. That makes it America's biggest lender. China's holdings move slightly up and down, but as of January they were at a six-month low.   It's unlikely China would dump a lot of its US Treasury bonds all at once -- after all, a major debt sale like that would cause prices for the US debt remaining in its portfolio to go down.   The real problem: What if China loses its appetite and doesn't buy much more US debt?   The United States government needs to issue nearly $1 trillion debt this fiscal year to cover its deficit, which is expected to swell more in the years to come because of the GOP tax cuts. To fund a deficit, the US sells more debt to other nations, foreign investors, American citizens and US banks. It's considered one of the safest investments in the world.   It's impossible to know what would happen if China stopped buying US debt, or significantly slowed its purchases. But at a minimum, it's not an ideal time for the US to aggravate its biggest lender.   Is it the end of the global economy as we know it?    That question sounds dramatic, but the global perceptions of China and the US on trade are reversing.   The United States has been the poster child for free trade since World War II and China the ultimate protectionist. Now, the US is seeking tariffs while China, at least rhetorically, says it wants to fight protectionism.   The presidents of Chile and Colombia both described the scenario as "the world upside down."   Free trade economists say the US is forfeiting its leadership role in global trade, while the Trump administration argues it's trying to make trade benefit more Americans.   Meanwhile, China is expanding its global footprint, seeking to develop an ambitious global trade highway known as the One Belt, One Road Initiative.   And geopolitical implications are endless, including reverberations with North Korea, Russia, Iran, Latin America, and the Middle East. Trade experts argue that economic links like trade help prevent real wars. They make countries more dependent on each other, those experts say, and less likely to pursue armed conflicts.   Is Trump's bite as bad as his bark?    All these concerns could be much ado about nothing. Trump was set to impose the steel and aluminum tariffs on every country. Top allies, and trade partners, were threatening retaliation.   Then Trump gave exemptions to Mexico, Canada, the European Union, South Korea, Australia, Brazil and Argentina. That means the top four steel exporters to the US and four of the top seven aluminum exporters won't face the tariff.   Trump also repeatedly threatened to tear up NAFTA, the trade deal between the US, Canada and Mexico. US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, who has been pessimistic about talks for months, told senators Thursday that all three sides are now making meaningful progress.   Trump's tariffs stemming from the tech investigation on China don't take effect for two weeks. That's a long time in this White House.  The US and China are in talks to try to avoid a trade war
The United States and China are acting tough over trade, but they're also busy talking to try to stop the situation spiraling out of control. President Donald Trump ramped up tensions last week by ordering tariffs on about $50 billion worth of Chinese goods just weeks after announcing of sanctions on steel and aluminum imports. Beijing has responded with plans to target $3 billion worth of US products and warnings that it's ready to inflict more pain.   The moves have fueled fears that the situation could escalate into a full-blown trade war between the world's two largest economies. But Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Sunday that he's been talking to Chinese officials in an effort to prevent that.   "We're not afraid of a trade war, but that's not our objective," he said in an interview on Fox News.   "We are going to proceed with our tariffs ... we're also working on investment restrictions," Mnuchin said. "But we are simultaneously having negotiations with the Chinese to see if we can reach an agreement."   The US government wants China to do a lot more to open up its vast economy to US businesses and bring down the massive trade deficit between the two countries.   Trump has set a target of cutting the deficit in goods with China by $100 billion. It soared to $375 billion last year, according to US figures.   Mnuchin said the United States wants China to do away with rules that require foreign companies to set up joint ventures with Chinese firms in many industries, such as automobiles, and to stop forcing American businesses to hand over valuable intellectual property in order to operate in China. Intellectual property theft is the reason the Trump administration gave for the planned $50 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods.     Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer detailed the US requests in a letter to a top Chinese economic official late last week, according to the Wall Street Journal. They included asking Beijing to reduce tariffs on American cars, increase spending on US semiconductors and provide greater access to the Chinese financial sector, the Journal reported, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter.   A Treasury Department spokesperson declined to confirm the report.   "We are having very productive conversations with them," Mnuchin told Fox, adding that he was "cautiously hopeful" that the two sides could reach a deal. But in the absence of "an acceptable agreement that the president signs off on," the Trump administration will press ahead with the tariffs and other measures, he warned.   China's point man for the talks is Liu He, a Harvard graduate who is one of President Xi Jinping's most trusted advisers. Liu was in Washington for talks with US officials the week that Trump announced plans for the tariffs on steel and aluminum and was recently appointed to the position of vice premier.   Mnuchin and Liu spoke as recently as this weekend.   "Secretary Mnuchin called Liu He to congratulate him on the official announcement of his new role," the Treasury spokesperson said. "They also discussed the trade deficit between our two countries and committed to continuing the dialogue to find a mutually agreeable way to reduce it."   China's official news agency Xinhua also reported the conversation, saying that Liu criticized the US allegations of Chinese intellectual property theft and warned Mnuchin that China "has the capability to safeguard its national interest."   But Liu also said that China "hopes to see both sides remain sensible and work together to preserve the overall stability of China-US trade relations," according to the Xinhua report.   Some experts are skeptical that Beijing will give Trump what he wants.   "China may be able to come up with some big ticket imports to allow it to appear to be trying to reduce the bilateral trade imbalance," Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at research firm Capital Economics, wrote in a note to clients on Friday. "But China won't be able to reduce the annual imbalance by $100bn as Mr Trump has demanded."   And "the chances of China making substantive changes to its practices on intellectual property are also low," Williams said, adding that the practices are seen in Beijing as "a key element" of efforts to develop the Chinese economy.   -- CNN's Donna Borak and Steven Jiang contributed to this report.  Rolling back Dodd-Frank could put big banks at risk
Charles Geisst is a professor of economics and finance at Manhattan College. He's the author of 20 books, including "Loan Sharks: The Birth of Predatory Lending" and "Wall Street: A History." The opinions expressed in this article are his own. Congress is in the process of rolling back several of the Dodd-Frank regulations passed in the wake of the financial crisis.   While the proposed changes will loosen the cumbersome restrictions on small banks, they could pave the way for further deregulation and put big banks on the path of becoming too powerful once again.   The Dodd-Frank financial reforms were designed to protect the financial system from another near collapse like the one that occurred in 2008.   At the heart of that meltdown was the deregulation that occurred in 1999, when Congress repealed the Glass-Steagall Act.   At that time, Congress replaced Glass-Steagall with legislation that enabled banks to own securities firms and vice versa. It was only a matter of time before banking and securities operations became indistinguishable and banks were exposed to wild swings in the markets. Then the losses started piling up.   Dodd-Frank was put in place to shield banks from these forces. It does this by holding annual stress tests to ensure that banks are equipped to weather another financial downturn. It also requires bank to have living wills, or plans for how they would safely be unwound in the event of a collapse.   But bankers say that the regulations are too cumbersome and costly, especially for smaller banks. At almost 2,500 pages, the regulation is indeed long and complicated and adhering to its guidelines costs banks billions of dollars.   Small banks argue it's unfair that they must bear these costs because they do not engage in investment banking or other risky businesses that threaten America's financial stability like the larger banks do.   The Senate sympathized when it voted to raise the threshold at which banks are considered too big to fail. Under the Senate bill, that threshold would increase from $50 billion to $250 billion in assets.   These new guidelines would exempt more than two dozen midsize US banks from some Federal Reserve oversight. That leaves many big banks still under the stricter federal oversight.   But this proposal could be just the beginning. After all, President Trump has been promising to "do a big number" on the Dodd-Frank regulations since he first took office.   Progressives, such as Elizabeth Warren, have warned Congress of the possibility that the regulations might get dismantled as well.   Bank lobbyists cannot attack all of Dodd-Frank at once, however, and protecting smaller banks was the one place almost everyone could agree on a roll-back.   But big banks need rules because they retain their grip on the economy and remain dominant, just as they did back in 2008.   More than ever before, their business models emphasize universal banking, based on all types of financial services under one roof.   Wall Street's history has demonstrated that the largest banks have the power to inflict the most financial damage on the economy. Our long-term financial stability will depend on these disruptive forces being kept at bay by regulators.  An immigration bill you've never heard of will solve US's labor shortage
Richard Burke is the president and CEO of Envoy, a global immigration and workforce mobility platform that helps employers through the process of hiring foreign talent. The opinions expressed in this article belong to him. We are facing a critical shortage of skilled labor in America.   According to the Labor Department's latest jobs report, we're in the strongest labor market in decades. But that has left the country with a severe shortage of skilled workers.   In some Rust Belt states, there are as many as 15 science, tech, engineering and math-related job postings for every unemployed STEM worker, according to a new report by New American Economy, a coalition of business leaders and mayors working toward immigration reform.   The Immigration Innovation or "I-Squared" Act has been proposed to tackle this issue. But it's gotten lost amid our nation's divisive immigration debate.   Sponsored by Republican Senators Orrin Hatch and Jeff Flake, the I-Squared Act promises to strengthen the US job market, enable the Trump Administration's "Buy American, Hire American" policy and address concerns regarding visa abuse.   How would it do this?   First, it would increase the total number of available H-1B visas, a fiercely-debated pathway into the US for skilled foreign workers.   The current H-1B allotment is capped at 85,000, but applications have approached three times the cap in recent years, with 236,000 in 2016.   The I-Squared bill would allow for up to 110,000 additional H-1B visas to be available if vacancies remained after the initial visa cap was met.   But welcoming highly skilled workers into the country is at best a short-term solution. Immigration policy that sets the stage for long-term economic prosperity must provide a path for foreign national workers to make a life here with their families.   I-Squared acknowledges this reality.   It would continue providing work authorization visas for spouses of H-1B visa holders, greatly improving quality of life for workers and their families and harnessing the real power of H-1B visas.   Still, many foreign nationals are facing another serious problem: Arbitrary per-country limits on green cards mean some have to wait several years, if not a decade.   For skilled workers who came to the country with children, the problem is especially urgent. Given current backlogs, many of these children are at risk of being forced to leave the United States when they turn 21 and the federal government no longer considers them dependents, according to a report by nonprofit advocacy group Immigration Voice.   That policy would not only hurt individual families, it has the potential to harm the entire economy. Today, 40% of Fortune 500 companies were either founded by immigrants or the children of immigrants, according to New American Economy.   I-Squared would remove arbitrary per-country limits for employment-based green cards and adjust caps for family-based green cards, easing a major source of uncertainty for high-skilled foreign national workers and their families.   That shift could have dramatic implications on workplace productivity. According to Envoy Global's annual Immigration Trends survey, 42% of employers noted that the biggest change from last year is an increase in anxiety and questions about immigration status from foreign national employees.   Even with all the benefits immigrant workers can bring to the country's workforce, detractors of the H-1B visa program argue that unscrupulous employers use the H-1B program to bring in foreign national workers at below-market rates, displacing American workers.   This bill rightly tackles this potential abuse in a two-pronged way. First, it raises the salary level at which H1-B-dependent companies, or companies with more than 15% of their workforce under H-1B status, pay foreign workers and receive an exemption from certain hiring requirements.   The bill raises the minimum annual salary companies must pay H1-B workers from $60,000 to $100,000 so they may bypass certain rules, such as those that forbid US employers from replacing American workers with foreign ones.   But the higher salaries also help reduce the odds that the H1-B worker is being hired at a less competitive rate.   Second, it expressly requires that H-1B workers not replace any American workers. In other words, employers are prohibited from hiring an H-1B worker with the express intent of replacing an American worker already in that position.   Finally, the I-Squared bill makes provisions for a future where the US workforce has the skills our employers demand.   While US employers have steadily added jobs for 89 consecutive months, many cannot find the workers they need because of the mismatch of skills.   I-Squared would allocate H-1B visa application fees and those for H-1B-related green cards to retrain US workers, thus ensuring a richer pipeline of domestic talent in the future and giving American citizens the tools to secure fulfilling employment.   There's no question that we need reform in the visa system.   Senators Hatch and Flake have presented a compelling set of solutions to the system's current problems. For the United States to remain a dominant force in the global economy, we need Congress to give this bill the consideration it deserves.   Update: This article has been updated to explain that companies that depend on H1-B workers and pay said workers the minimum annual salary of $100,000 outlined in this bill would receive an exemption from certain hiring requirements.   US and South Korea revamp trade deal that Trump called 'horrible'
The United States and South Korea have agreed to settle their differences on trade. The South Korean government said Monday that the two countries had struck a deal on a new version of the free trade agreement that has linked the two economies for the past six years.   South Korea has also secured a partial exemption from President Donald Trump's new steel tariffs.   Trump had been hugely critical of the existing trade deal between the two countries, slamming it as "horrible" and threatening to yank the United States out of it altogether. That raised fears of a damaging dispute that could drive a wedge between the United States and one of its closest allies in Asia. South Korea is the United States' sixth-biggest trading partner.   But after starting talks in January to renegotiate the deal, which is known as Korus, the two sides have now reached agreement on the key points, according to top officials from both countries.   Despite Trump's threats, South Korea appears to have emerged from the talks "unscathed," said Krystal Tan, an Asia economist at research firm Capital Economics.   "The concessions that Korea has agreed to will have a very small impact on its economy," she wrote in a note to clients.   Under the revised deal, US automakers will get greater access to the South Korean market. Far more cars are shipped from South Korea to the United States than in the other direction, making up a big chunk of the $23 billion annual trade deficit between the two countries.   "On the whole, this is a good result," said Troy Stangarone, a senior director at the Korea Economic Institute of America, a Washington-based think tank.   Winning concessions for American automakers was crucial for the United States, he said, while South Korea will be pleased that it didn't have to give ground on opening up its agricultural industry to US imports.   Last year, the United States imported nearly $16 billion worth of South Korean passenger cars but sent only $1.5 billion worth in the other direction, according to US government figures.   South Korea's Trade Ministry said Monday that it will allow American automakers to each annually import 50,000 vehicles that meet US safety standards, double the previous quota. Beyond that threshold, cars shipped from the US will have to comply with South Korean auto-safety regulations.   US automakers have previously complained that having to comply with the South Korean rules puts them at disadvantage.   The adjustments "will make little practical difference, at least in the short term," said Tan of Capital Economics, noting that "no US automaker sold more than 11,000 vehicles in Korea last year."   Still, agreeing on changes to the trade deal "takes a potentially divisive issue off of the table" as the United States and South Korea prepare for talks with North Korea's leadership over its nuclear weapons program, Stangarone said.   US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told Fox News on Sunday that the United States had reached "a very productive understanding" with South Korea on the trade deal, but didn't provide further details.   The new agreement was announced at the same time as details on South Korea's partial exemption from Trump's controversial tariffs on steel and aluminum. The country is one of the biggest suppliers of steel to the United States.   Under the arrangement, 70% of the average amount of steel that South Korea exports to the United States each year will be permanently exempt from the new 25% tariff, South Korean officials said.   Several other US allies -- including Canada, Mexico and the European Union -- have been granted temporary exclusions.   South Korean stocks responded positively to the news. The benchmark Kospi index closed up 0.8% on Monday, and shares in Posco (PKX), the country's biggest steelmaker, gained 2%.   -- CNN's Sol Han and Yoonjung Seo contributed to this report.    Updated: This story has been updated to clarify the number of cars that US automakers can send to South Korea without meeting the country's safety standards.  Some Aetna customers will see lower drug prices
About 3 million Aetna customers could get a break at the pharmacy next year. The health insurer announced Tuesday it would pass along to consumers the rebates it receives from drug manufacturers, starting January 1. This will apply to people enrolled in a certain type of job-based insurance coverage.   "We have always believed that consumers should benefit from discounts and rebates that we negotiate with drug manufacturers," said Aetna (AET) CEO Mark Bertolini. He noted that drug prices have increased nearly 25% between 2012 and 2016. "Going forward, we hope this additional transparency will encourage these companies to rationalize their pricing and end the practice of annual double-digit price increases."   The move comes three weeks after rival UnitedHealthcare said it would do the same for its 7 million consumers who are on the same type of job-based plans.  UnitedHealthcare (UNH) said the discounts can range from a few dollars to more than $1,000, depending on the medication.   Insurers say they usually funnel the rebates into lowering customers' monthly premiums.   Drug prices are now in the spotlight, with President Donald Trump and his administration promising to lower the cost of prescription medicine. The administration's fiscal 2019 budget proposes passing along more drug rebates to Medicare enrollees.   Aetna, one of the nation's largest health insurers, is in the process of being acquired by CVS (CVS), which runs a pharmacy benefits manager that helps negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers.  Fewer immigrants = a weaker UK economy
Britain should brace for weaker economic growth if fewer immigrants come to its shores after Brexit. A government committee said in a report Tuesday that the UK economy will "very likely" grow more slowly if immigration from the European Union is drastically restricted.   The Migration Advisory Committee, which had been tasked with studying the impact of immigration policy, also said that employers were "fearful" over how their businesses would be affected by tighter restrictions.   Many companies told the committee that they have no choice but to hire workers from Europe.   UK employers said they hire Europeans because those workers have skills that are scarce in the native workforce, according to the report. European workers are also seen as being more reliable, flexible and willing to do work that Brits find unappealing.   Membership in the European Union means that workers from across the bloc are currently free to work in the United Kingdom.   But after a Brexit campaign and vote where immigration was a major issue, Prime Minister Theresa May has promised to reduce the number of immigrants coming to Britain after Brexit.   "The British people want control of our borders, and after we leave the European Union we will ensure that we can control immigration to Britain from Europe, putting in place a system which works in the best interests of the whole of the United Kingdom," the government said in a statement.   That's not a priority shared by many businesses.   With unemployment at its lowest level in decades, some employers are already finding it difficult to hire staff with the right skills. Official statistics also show the number of Europeans coming to the UK has already dropped ahead of Brexit.   "Restricting access to EU workers -- at a time of record employment rates -- would leave companies without the staff they need to grow and invest," said Neil Carberry, managing director for people at the Confederation of British Industry.   Agriculture, hospitality and healthcare are among the industries that rely on large numbers of foreign workers.   According to the Migration Advisory Committee, some UK companies may be forced to relocate in order to access European Union labor without restrictions, while other firms might go out of business.  New US deal with South Korea: What you need to know
President Donald Trump has his first trade deal. Senior US officials on Tuesday gave details on an agreement in principle with South Korea to revise a trade deal that originally went into effect in 2012.   The officials said the agreement was an example of Trump delivering on his promise to voters to negotiate better trade deals for the United States.   "This agreement is visionary and innovative," one senior administration official, speaking on background, told reporters.    The US officials made their case for why the revised deal is an improvement on the one that's currently in effect, which Trump has slammed as "horrible" and a "job killer." The South Korean government first announced details of the agreement on Monday.   Some economists have suggested the new deal isn't significantly different from the old one. South Korean exporters will be relieved that none of the tariffs that were lifted under the original agreement have been brought back, according to Krystal Tan, an economist at research firm Capital Economics.   Experts point out that the negotiations lasted only a few months, far shorter than trade talks typically take. Striking a deal quickly, they note, has the advantage of removing a potentially divisive issue between the two military allies at a time of tensions and delicate talks with North Korea.   Here are some of the main takeaways from the new agreement:   Auto exports   The Trump administration says some of the key changes affect the auto industry, which accounts for a big chunk of the trade deficit the United States runs with South Korea.   Under the revamped deal, each US carmaker will be allowed to export 50,000 vehicles per year to South Korea that meet American safety standards, up from 25,000 previously. Beyond that threshold, cars shipped from the United States will have to comply with South Korean safety rules, which American companies say put them at a disadvantage.   But analysts say the increased quota is unlikely to make much difference anytime soon. No US automaker sold more than 11,000 cars in South Korea last year.   Trump administration officials argue, though, that US car companies should benefit from an agreement by South Korea to ease "burdensome" auto regulations more broadly. That includes reducing additional tests and getting rid of labeling requirements that, the administration argues, hinder American automakers' ability to sell in South Korea.   The revised deal also postpones the phasing out of a US tariff of 25% on pickup trucks from South Korea. It will now end in 2041 rather than 2021. Capital Economics says no Korean automaker exports pickup trucks to the US at the moment.   Steel and aluminum    The agreement will limit South Korean steel exports to the United States. The cap will be set at 70% of what South Korea sends over in an average year now. After 70%, South Korea can't export more steel to the United States in any year.   South Korea will not be subject to the broad 25% tariff that Trump has imposed on most other countries. He has granted temporary exemptions to several other US allies, including Canada, Mexico and the European Union.   South Korea will still be subject to the 10% tariff on aluminum that was imposed on most nations.   Currency clause   The United States and South Korea also agreed to try to make sure neither country devalues its currency intentionally to gain an unfair advantage on trade. But the measure lacks teeth.   When a currency is weaker, it makes exports cheaper -- and more attractive -- to foreign buyers. It also makes foreign imports more expensive for local consumers. On the campaign trail, Trump repeatedly railed against other countries that he accused of purposely devaluing their currencies to get an unfair edge over the United States.   The United States has never included a provision on currencies in a trade negotiation before, according to Trump administration officials.   But the devil is in the detail. The currency provision is not actually in the official agreement and has no enforcement mechanism. Including it in the text of the deal would have required a lengthy legislative approval process, a path that administration officials indicated they did not want to go down.   In effect, both countries are just agreeing to act in good faith with their currencies.   — Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly characterized how the trade agreement treats South Korean steel exports.  Nobody gets off 'scot-free' from Trump tariffs, White House adviser says
President Trump granted tariff exemptions to six countries and the European Union, initially easing fears of a global trade war. But it's increasingly clear those countries will still face a penalty.   "It's not an exemption like it's a Get Out of Tariff Free card," White House trade adviser Peter Navarro told CNN's Richard Quest on Wednesday. The White House has said "nothing about letting countries off scot-free."   Last week Trump imposed a 10% tariff on imported aluminum and a 25% tariff on imported steel — except for the countries granted exemptions. Beyond Europe, the countries were Mexico, Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Australia and South Korea.   Together, they account for about two-thirds of steel exports to the United States.   Initially, some outside investors and economists thought that the exemptions put those countries in the clear. In 2002, President George W. Bush imposed a global tariff on steel, but exempted Canada and Mexico.   But the exempted countries will probably still face a quota — a limit on how much steel or aluminum they may ship to the United States each year. It's a tool President Ronald Reagan used on Japan in the 1980s.   The White House revealed its first quota on Tuesday. South Korea must cut its annual steel exports to the United States by 30% between the two countries, which just renegotiated a trade agreement. The quota takes the place of the 25% steel tariff. South Korea will still pay the 10% aluminum tariff.   Tariffs are generally worse than mutually agreed-upon quotas. But quotas are still a barrier that can sour trade relations, and they put more teeth in Trump's trade action on steel and aluminum than some investors expected.   The other exempted nations have until May 1 to negotiate deals with the Trump administration. White House officials said Tuesday that each country's exports will be judged separately. The 30% reduction that South Korea received may not apply to the others.   Despite stock market volatility triggered by fears of a trade war, Navarro said no one should be surprised by Trump's trade policy. He noted that the investigations that resulted in the tariffs took several months. He also pointed out that Trump himself promised as a candidate that he would be tough on trade.   "The president said he was going to come in and get fair and reciprocal trade, so why is anyone surprised he's actually doing it? What a concept," Navarro told Quest. "Nobody didn't see this coming."  Why Trump country is worried about Trump's tariffs
Mayor Andy Berke knows that Chattanooga, Tennessee, is having a moment. Record low unemployment. Double-digit wage growth. Affordable housing and beautiful national parks nearby. Outside Magazine even named it "Best Town Ever."   But President Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs could threaten the success story.   Trump won Tennessee with 61% of the vote, and he carried Hamilton County, which includes Chattanooga, with 56%. He promised during the campaign to get tough on trade, but parts of Trump country are starting to worry about his tariffs.   Chattanooga, a city of 178,000 people, has about 20,000 auto jobs, according to the mayor, a Democrat, and Census figures. The biggest employer is Volkswagen, which has its only US factory there.   Automakers, some of the biggest buyers of steel and sometimes aluminum, face higher production costs because of the tariffs. Higher costs have historically led to higher prices for customers and sometimes job losses.   Berke says the Volkswagen factory buys American-made steel. But domestic steel is getting more expensive, too. Facing less competition, US steel makers have raised prices 10% since Trump's first announcement on March 1, according to S&P Global Platts.   The tariffs are "a point of concern for Chattanooga," Berke told CNN. "This is pretty simple for us: When we sell more cars, more people get jobs ... free trade brings jobs to our community."   Volkswagen said in a statement that the tariffs "will make manufacturing in the United States less competitive, threaten job growth and result in higher prices for consumers."   Businesses in another Republican stronghold, Texas, are beginning to report that the tariffs, which went into effect Friday, will hurt their business, too. Trump won 52% of the vote in Texas, compared with 43% for Hillary Clinton.   A survey published Monday by the Dallas Federal Reserve found that manufacturers and oil and coal companies are worried.   "The steel tariff could hurt," an executive at a metal manufacturing company told the Dallas Fed. "We expect a wild, unpredictable ride as there are also large, negative and unintended consequences which will hurt us."   Metal manufacturers are the kind of company meant to be protected by the tariffs.   An executive from a fabricated-metal company worried that the steel tariff could "severely impact our business."   A transportation equipment maker in Texas put it bluntly: "We will likely have to raise prices due to the effects of aluminum tariffs."   The Dallas Fed did not name the respondents in the survey, and said that it edited the responses for publication.   Trump is imposing a 25% tariff on imported steel and a 10% tariff on imported aluminum. Six countries and the European Union are exempt, which eases the blow to US businesses. But about a third of US steel imports are still subject to the duties.   Elsewhere in Trump country, Midwest pork farms are worried about tariffs from China, which plans to retaliate against the US actions. Breweries in North Carolina expect to pay more for the aluminum they use in beer cans. Grain growers in Montana worry about the ripple effects of Chinese tariffs.   Nationwide, 38% of Americans approve of Trump's work on trade, compared with 50% who disapprove, according to a CNN poll published Tuesday.   To be sure, some businesses thank Trump for the tariffs, mostly steel firms and some aluminum producers. But there are far more jobs in industries that buy steel, such as cars, than industries that sell it.  Republicans' new welfare reform focus: Low-income men
A generation ago, Republicans focused on reforming the nation's safety net by requiring poor mothers to work. These days, the Trump administration and Republican leaders are once again looking to overhaul government assistance programs. But now they are zeroing in on a new group: low-income men.   Much of the focus this time centers on requiring able-bodied, working age recipients to get jobs or participate in other community activities if they want to receive Medicaid or food stamps -- two of the largest public aid programs in the US with tens of millions of enrollees each.   While women are certainly affected, many mothers can receive exemptions from the new mandates. So the requirements are falling more heavily on men.   "The poster-child mental image [policymakers] are painting is of men, especially young men," said Elizabeth Lower-Basch, director of the income and work supports team at the left-leaning Center for Law and Social Policy.   Conservatives think working-age men who aren't disabled and don't have children should be expected to have jobs.   "In their situation, the failure to work is less justified," said Robert Doar, a poverty studies fellow at the right-leaning American Enterprise Institute, noting the benefits of employment. "Their incomes will go up and they'll be less likely to be poor."   This is just one of the reasons why men are now in Republicans' sights.   Another is the changing nature of the nation's safety net. Historically, welfare programs have been geared toward helping poor families with children, often headed by single mothers. But in recent years, the programs have ballooned in size, with many more men signing up.   Take Medicaid. Prior to Obamacare, it was difficult for adults -- particularly childless adults -- to qualify for the public health insurance program in many states.   But the health reform law's Medicaid expansion opened up the program to low-income Americans in the 31 states that opted to participate. More than three million men gained Medicaid coverage between 2013 and 2016, according to Census Bureau data. And, the uninsured rate for poor, childless men fell to 21.8% in 2015, down from 48.1% in 2013 in states that expanded, according to the Urban Institute.   The Trump administration, however, quickly signaled that it was open to allowing states to impose work requirements on certain beneficiaries for the first time in Medicaid's history. It has approved three state applications so far this year and is reviewing at least eight others.   But not everyone is subject to the new rules. In Kentucky, for instance, pregnant women and primary caregivers of children are excluded. Plus, taking care of an aging parent counts toward the community service requirement. Arkansas, meanwhile, is exempting those who live with dependent children or care for someone who is incapacitated -- roles that often fall to women.   The Trump administration and Republican leaders are positioning work requirements as an opportunity to improve Medicaid recipients' health and financial independence, but consumer advocates say such measures will leave many more Americans uninsured. They also note that many enrollees already work, including 65% of the men in the program, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. But they earn so little, they still qualify for government help.   The food stamp program has also seen a surge in participation in recent years, particularly among men.   Total enrollment in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program soared following the Great Recession, though it has drifted downward since its fiscal 2013 peak. The number of non-elderly men receiving SNAP benefits stood at 7.2 million in fiscal 2016, up 84% from fiscal 2008, according to federal data. This is in part because former President Barack Obama relaxed the work requirements for enrollees without dependent children.   Now, the Trump administration wants to mandate that more food stamp recipients work. The Agriculture Department is currently seeking comments on how to get more able-bodied, working age adults without dependent children -- 54% of whom are men -- into the labor force. It is weighing limiting the states' ability to waive the work requirement in areas with high unemployment.   The agency's "goal is to move individuals and families from SNAP back to the workforce as the best long-term solution to poverty," said Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue. "Everyone who receives SNAP deserves an opportunity to become self-sufficient and build a productive, independent life."   However, fewer men are working these days, which is another reason why Republicans are focusing on them. Just under 70% of men are in the labor force -- either in a job or looking for one -- compared to nearly 87% in 1948, when the federal government began measuring the statistic.   The decline is particularly evident among lower-income men, who typically have less education, according to the Brookings Institution. This is in part because many positions today require more than just high school diplomas and skills that most of these men don't have.   Blocked from taking up broader entitlement reform by a reluctant Senate, House Speaker Paul Ryan is now recasting the effort as a way to ease the nation's worker shortage. He points to companies and studies that say it's hard to fill vacancies. In an online post last month, Ryan highlighted that seven million men are missing from the workforce, citing an American Enterprise Institute study.   "With so much untapped potential sitting on the sidelines, Congress should continue to advance policies that incentivize work, foster independence, and help people escape poverty," he said.   Adding more men to the labor force would also chip away at several societal problems, said Lawrence Mead, a professor of politics and public policy. Fewer would be poor, doing drugs or committing crimes, while more would be with their families or paying child support.   "All of this can only be addressed if we get these guys working," Mead said.   Correction: An earlier version of this article included the total number of males who received benefits from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, including children. That number has been changed to include only men between the ages of 18 and 59 who received food stamps.  Brexit is 1 year away. Here's what could still go wrong
There's just one year to go before Brexit. Britain and the European Union have made some progress in negotiating a divorce that will alter millions of lives and drastically change how the United Kingdom does business.   But untangling a close relationship after four decades is not easy, and much could still go wrong before March 29, 2019.   Here's where things stand:   Britain and the European Union recently published a draft withdrawal document that outlines what they've agreed on so far, and what must still be decided.   There have been breakthroughs on some divisive issues, including the rights of EU citizens living in the United Kingdom. Britain has also agreed to pay a large financial settlement to the bloc.   But other major questions remain unanswered, including how to deal with the Irish border.   Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom, is leaving the European Union. But the Republic of Ireland is staying.   The 310-mile border between Northern Ireland and Ireland is currently invisible, the legacy of the peace process that sought to end decades of sectarian violence. Traffic and goods flow freely, and there are no physical barriers.   Both sides want to avoid the return of a "hard border." But they haven't been able to agree on how that might be accomplished.   The European Union has made clear that without an agreement on Ireland, there will be no divorce deal.   "Without that, we have nothing, no withdrawal agreement, no transition period, no agreement on finance, nothing," said Simon Usherwood, deputy director of The UK in a Changing Europe.   Crashing out of the European Union without a deal would be disastrous for the UK economy. Supply chains would be disrupted, goods would pile up at the borders and the cost of doing business would spike dramatically.   Transition   While Britain will officially leave the European Union in March 2019, the two sides have conditionally agreed to a transition period lasting until the end of 2020.   UK companies will continue to have access to the European Union during the transition, and Britain will continue to pay into the EU budget. The United Kingdom will be obliged to adopt new EU regulations.   Negotiators hope the transition will give them enough time to reach a new deal trade.   "The only real change that will take place... is that the United Kingdom will lose its ability to directly shape EU policy," said Stephen Brown, an economist at Capital Economics.   Some analysts argue the transition agreement merely postpones the crunch for businesses. "We are swapping a cliff edge in March next year for a cliff edge at the end of 2020," Usherwood said.   Uncertainty is already hurting the UK economy, which is growing more slowly than that of the European Union. Inflation has spiked, business investment has dropped and consumers have tightened their belts.   Future relationship    It's now a race against time.   The transition period gives the two sides just 21 months to negotiate a new trade deal. Experts argue that a realistic, if ambitious, time frame for signing a free trade deal would be four to five years.   "It seems unlikely that the detailed legal terms will be fully agreed in time for the end of the transition period," said Chris Grey, a professor at Royal Holloway University in London.   On top of that, leaving the European Union also means that Britain will no longer be party to over 600 treaties with non-European nations on issues ranging from aviation rules to nuclear imports. They must be replaced or renegotiated.   "There's huge amount of uncertainty about what the UK is going to want [from the trade agreement] and what the European Union is going to give. Different member states will have varying opinions and they all have to ratify this deal," Usherwood said.  The mounting infrastructure crisis Washington isn't fixing fast enough 
Sean Strawbridge runs the Port of Corpus Christi in Texas, but he's been spending a lot of time in Washington lately. In meetings with White House officials and anyone else who'll listen, he brings a stack of glossy brochures laying out what he's after: $225 million from the federal government to widen and deepen the channel that ships pass through.   The president's fiscal 2019 budget for the US Army Corps of Engineers, which owns the channel, requested $13 million for the project. Not nearly enough to finish the job, even with the port itself supplying another $102 million.   President Trump unveiled a plan in February to turn $200 billion in federal money into $1.5 trillion for fixing America's infrastructure by leveraging local and state tax dollars and private investment.   The plan seemed promising, but it hasn't advanced since. Strawbridge, who hired a brand name public relations firm to help sell his project, is growing less optimistic that the money will be available anytime soon.   "I would say at this point it's highly unlikely that we're going to see any legislative tweaks this year," Strawbridge says. Without substantially more federal funding, the project might have to be delayed or scaled back, making it harder to satisfy the export demand stemming from Texas' booming oilfields.   "If the federal government for some reason stumbles," Strawbridge says, "we're going to have to look at what's a plan B."   It's a tough reality facing local officials from all over the country seeking to get their projects funded. Despite the fanfare surrounding Trump's 53-page infrastructure plan, the president still needs Congress to draft legislation and appropriate money -- and so far there appears to be little momentum to do so.   In response to an inquiry about the status of its program, a White House spokeswoman touted the "down payment" on infrastructure folded into the spending bill that passed last week, including $625 million for rural broadband, and a bill backed by the Department of the Interior that would funnel up to $18 billion in revenue from energy produced on public lands into upgrades to roads and facilities in national parks.   But the White House didn't say when they expect to see a more complete legislative package. A spokesman for the Senate Energy and Commerce Committee, which would draft the bill, declined to confirm a time frame as well.   That's despite a blitz of lobbying earlier this year from groups like the National Association of Counties and American Society of Civil Engineers.   In meetings on Capitol Hill, the petitioners heard a consistent refrain from legislators: We know your roads and sewer systems are important, but finding another $200 billion for infrastructure after we just ran up the deficit with a $1 trillion tax cut is a heavy lift.   "They bet the farm on the tax bill," said Karen Freeman-Wilson, the mayor of Gary, Indiana, while attending the National League of Cities' annual legislative summit. "So now, how do you pay for it?"   That's left local governments wondering where else to turn for the mounting backlog of maintenance projects and improvements that won't generate enough returns to attract substantial private investment.   Winning federal funding has become more difficult in the absence of earmarks, since members of Congress don't have much influence over grant-making agencies like the Department of Transportation. Former Florida Representative John Mica, who chaired the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee until 2013, recently told a group of county officials that the best way to win federal funding is to come up with as much money locally as they can.   "The more you can put in the pot, the better chance you get," Mica advised. "And then lobby like hell, because you're competing with everybody in this room."   It's easier said than done.   Take the city of Arvada, Colorado, which has long sought funds for two major projects: a $35 million expansion of an east-west highway since 2001, and an $18 million streetscape overhaul to promote pedestrian safety since 2007.   City manager Mark Deven says he's tried his luck with federal grant programs, like the TIGER grants created by the Obama administration. So far, no luck.   "These funds are very competitive," Deven says. "At a meeting I went to a couple years ago with the federal Department of Transportation, one of the federal officials mentioned that you have a better chance of having your child admitted to Harvard than receiving one of these grants."   After already taxing their own citizens to pay for improvements, some state and local officials have grown especially frustrated with the lack of federal action.   Michigan, for example, had already raised gas taxes and vehicle registration fees on residents in order to raise funds to repairs its roads and other projects. But in the wake of the Flint water crisis, a commission appointed by the governor found that unmet need for the upkeep of the state's overall infrastructure was still $4 billion per year.   Mark Vanderpool is the city manager of Sterling Heights, Michigan, which is trying to put together $217 million for a road that serves the state's largest manufacturing companies. Along with the county and the city of Warren, he's applied for enough federal funding to cover 60% of the project, and is crossing his fingers the money comes through.   "There has to be a collaborative effort with infrastructure," says Vanderpool. "The scope of the problem is so massive. Locals and states are doing what they need to do."   Although they would welcome any extra funding, as well as the shorter permitting process that the White House also promised in its infrastructure plan, many local officials would rather see a long-term fix to something more basic: The Highway Trust Fund, which is scheduled to run out of money in 2021 as gas tax revenue declines.   Those dollars are parceled out to states on a formula basis, making them more reliable than grants handed out at the discretion of federal bureaucrats.   "The problem we see with how funding has been going overall is on these short-term continuing resolutions," says Michael Reeves, who runs the Port to Plains coalition, a group that advocates for transportation corridors between Canada and Mexico. "With transportation, it's a long-term process, and it's so important to have that long-term certainty."  Back from the brink: Hope grows for NAFTA's survival 
President Trump threatened repeatedly to kill NAFTA. He called it "the worst deal maybe ever signed." But America's free trade agreement with Canada and Mexico may just survive.   Hopes are rising that NAFTA negotiators are compromising on tough issues and that Trump's threat to tear it up is a thing of the past.   "If there's a real effort made to try to close out and to compromise and do some of the things we all know we should do, I'm optimistic we can get something done in principle in the next little bit," US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, the top American negotiator, told CNBC on Wednesday. "I think we are making progress."   That optimism is relatively new. NAFTA talks began last August, and by November, Lighthizer was criticizing negotiators from Canada and Mexico — to their faces and in public — for failing to compromise, in his view.   Canadian and Mexican officials called the Trump administration's demands unacceptable. And Trump himself kept threatening to tear up the deal, which he has the power to do without Congress.   The most contentious issues are auto manufacturing in North America, how long the deal would run and how companies would resolve investment disputes.   Lighthizer's upbeat tone adds to similar remarks he made last week. It also complements White House trade adviser Peter Navarro, who told CNBC earlier this week, "we might get a really good deal on NAFTA."   Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said last week that he sees positive "momentum" at the negotiating table.   The Mexico peso, perhaps the ultimate NAFTA bellwether, confirms that view. It rose again Thursday. It's up 3% this month and almost 8% for the year. This week the peso hit its highest level since early October.   That's a major turnaround. The peso plunged as much as 11% after Trump won the election in 2016, and it kept falling until Inauguration Day. After recovering early last year, the peso fell again when NAFTA talks were stumbling last fall.   Now the currency is rising because of "a smaller probability of a NAFTA breakdown," said Carlos Capistran, an economist at Bank of America based in Mexico City.   There's a long way to go. Negotiators have agreed on only six of 30 chapters in a new NAFTA. And time is working against them: Mexico's presidential election in July and the US midterm elections in November could risk what progress has been made.   Canada's chief negotiator, Steve Verheul, expressed a commitment on Wednesday to get a deal done. But he questioned what Lighthizer meant by an agreement in principle and noted Canadian "concerns" about US proposals and "issues that are going to be difficult to resolve."   "On the core, most important issues, there is still a significant amount of work to be done," Verheul said at a press conference.   Still, the United States and Canada aren't reversing roles. Canada has long urged the United States to stay in NAFTA. For now, fears of the worst are giving way to cautious hope.  Thousands mistakenly enrolled during California's Medicaid expansion, feds find
California signed up an estimated 450,000 people under Medicaid expansion who may not have been eligible for coverage, according to a report by the U.S. Health and Human Services' chief watchdog. In a Feb. 21 report, the HHS' inspector general estimated that California spent $738.2 million on 366,078 expansion beneficiaries who were ineligible. It spent an additional $416.5 million for 79,055 expansion enrollees who were "potentially" ineligible, auditors found.   Auditors said nearly 90% of the $1.15 billion in questionable payments involved federal money, while the rest came from the state's Medicaid program, known as Medi-Cal. They examined a six-month period from Oct. 1, 2014, to March 31, 2015, when Medicaid payments of $6.2 billion were made related to 1.9 million newly eligible enrollees.   There were limitations to the California review, however. The audit extrapolated from a sample of 150 beneficiaries. The authors reported a 90% confidence level in their results — whereas 95% would be more common. That meant that the number of those ineligible could have been as low as 260,000 or as high as 630,000.   "If HHS has a strong reason to believe that California is systematically making enrollment errors, it would be helpful to show that in a more robust analysis," said Ben Ippolito, a health care economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank. "The federal government should ensure that states are being good stewards of federal money."   Nonetheless, the audit highlighted weaknesses in California's Medicaid program, the largest in the nation with 13.4 million enrollees and an annual budget topping $100 billion, counting federal and state money. Medicaid covers one in three Californians.   The inspector general found deficiencies in the state's computer system for verifying eligibility and discovered errors by caseworkers. The Medicaid payments cited in the report covered people in the state's fee-for-service system, managed-care plans, drug treatment programs and those receiving mental health services.   California's Department of Health Care Services, which runs Medi-Cal, said in a statement that it agreed with nearly all of the auditors' recommendations and that the agency "has taken steps to address all of the findings."   In a written response to the inspector general, California officials said several computer upgrades were made after the audit period and before publication of the report that should improve the accuracy of eligibility decisions.   Among the 150 expansion enrollees analyzed in detail, 75%, or 112, were deemed eligible for the Medicaid program in California. Auditors discovered a variety of problems with the other 38 enrollees.   During the audit period, 12 enrollees in the sample group had incomes above 138% of the federal poverty line, making them ineligible financially for public assistance, according to the report.   In other instances, beneficiaries were already enrolled in Medicare, the federal health insurance for people 65 and older or who have severe disabilities, and did not qualify for Medi-Cal. One woman indicated she didn't want Medi-Cal but was enrolled anyway.   In 2014, the state struggled to clear a massive backlog of Medi-Cal applications, which reached about 900,000 at one point. Many people complained about being mistakenly rejected for coverage, or their applications were lost in the state or county computer systems.   California was one of 31 states to expand Medicaid under the 2010 Affordable Care Act. The health law established a higher federal reimbursement for these newly eligible patients, primarily low-income adults without children. After expansion started in 2014, the HHS inspector general's office began reviewing whether states were determining eligibility correctly and spending taxpayer dollars appropriately.   In a similar audit released in January, the inspector general estimated that New York spent $26.2 million in federal Medicaid money on 47,271 expansion enrollees who were ineligible for coverage. (The sample size there was 130 enrollees.) Overall, New York had far fewer expansion enrollees and related spending compared to California.   Audits of other states' records are planned.   "It is inevitable that in a big rollout of new eligibility for any public program there are going to be glitches in implementation," said Kathy Hempstead, a health-policy expert and senior adviser at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. "The inspector general wants to make sure that states are being sufficiently careful."   Nationwide, Medicaid, the state-federal health insurance program designed for the poor, is the country's largest health insurance program, covering 74 million Americans. In the past year, Republican efforts to reduce Medicaid funding and enrollment have sparked intense political debates and loud protests over the size and scope of the public program.   The federal government footed the entire cost of Medicaid expansion during the first three years, instead of taking the usual approach of splitting the costs with states. Now, states are picking up more of the bill. Their share of the costs grows to 10% by 2020.   The California audit didn't request a specific repayment from the state, but the findings were sent to the U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services for review. CMS officials didn't return a request for comment.   Donald White, a spokesman for the inspector general's office, said the agency stood by the report's findings and declined to comment further.   This story was produced by Kaiser Health News, which publishes California Healthline, a service of the California Health Care Foundation.  China pledged to invest $250 billion in the United States. Now what?
In November, President Trump claimed a win when he returned from his Asia tour touting $250 billion in deals with China. Now, those agreements — which span sectors like energy, aviation and tech — could be ammunition for Beijing as it spars with Washington over trade.   "The Chinese are going to see these things as bargaining chips," said Edward Chow, a global energy expert at the Center for Strategic & International Studies. "Clearly, Trump is a transactional guy."   Last week, Trump told the US trade representative to levy tariffs on about $50 billion worth of Chinese imports, after a seven-month investigation into intellectual property theft. The United States also intends to impose new restrictions on Chinese investment.   The moves, which follow new US tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, have sparked fears of a trade war. The Chinese government said that tariffs on about $3 billion worth of US imports will go into effect on Monday, hitting 128 products ranging from pork and fruit to steel pipes.   China has yet to announce its response to the coming IP theft tariffs. But as the situation escalates, the deal package announced during Trump's state visit with President Xi Jinping could come up — especially because it involves some big corporate names.   — Goldman Sachs (GS) said it would create a $5 billion fund with China Investment Corporation, the country's sovereign wealth fund, to invest in US companies.  — Qualcomm (QCOM) signed $12 billion in non-binding deals to supply semiconductors to Chinese smartphone brands Xiaomi, Oppo and Vivo. —Sinopec (SHI), China's state-owned oil and gas company, said it would explore an investment of up to $43 billion in Alaska's energy sector. — China Energy Investment Corp., which is also state-owned, signed a non-binding agreement with the state of West Virginia to invest nearly $84 billion in shale gas and chemical manufacturing projects. — Boeing (BA) announced that it would sell about $37 billion worth of planes to a government holding company that buys jets for state-owned carriers such as Air China and China Southern Airlines.   It's not clear if all of the deals were new. And there's been plenty of skepticism about whether many will come to fruition, trade fight or not.   "The Alaska deal, in particular, was signed because it was politically expedient rather than commercially attractive," said Hugo Brennan, senior Asia analyst at consulting firm Verisk Maplecroft. The contract gives China "plenty of room to back out down the line," he added.   For its part, the Alaska group coordinating the project, the Alaska Gasline Development Corporation, said in a statement that it was not concerned that China would pull its support amid trade tensions.   The details may be murky, but these deals could be currency for China as it tries to convince the United States to back down on tariffs. That's especially true because many involve state-controlled entities.   "Whatever trading stock you have for bargaining purposes, you keep — whether [it's] real or phony," Chow said.   That doesn't mean China won't move forward with the investments it deems strategic.   For example, the plan to invest in shale gas production West Virginia could serve a real purpose. China has made reducing its reliance on coal a top priority, and it needs both the cleaner energy and the technological know-how that would come from such a project.   "[China is] the the largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the world," said Jonathan Elkind, senior research scholar at Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy. "It is an economy that is still building very, very vigorously. That represents a lot of a opportunity for US companies that have world-leading technologies."   In the end, China is not going to do anything that it doesn't think is in its best interest, he added.   "You want to hope that after the shouting and screaming is over, some more sensible mutual accommodation will be found," Elkind said.  China hits the United States with tariffs on $3 billion of exports
China is showing the United States that it will make good on its trade threats. The Chinese government said that tariffs on about $3 billion worth of US imports are going into effect Monday, hitting 128 products ranging from pork, meat and fruit to steel pipes.   It's the latest move in escalating tensions between the world's two largest economies, which some experts fear could turn into a trade war.   Beijing says the new sanctions on 128 US products, which it first proposed 10 days ago, are in response to President Donald Trump's tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum from China and some other countries.   But Trump also has more measures in the works aimed specifically at China. He has announced plans to slap tariffs on about $50 billion worth of Chinese goods following an investigation by his administration into the theft of intellectual property from US companies.   The administration has said those tariffs will punish the Chinese aerospace, technology and machinery industries, but it hasn't announced which specific products will be hit.   The tariffs also won't take effect right away. A US fact sheet says the administration will take public comments for 30 days on the proposed action. US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer told CNBC last week that the public comment period would be 60 days.   In the meantime, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has said the United States and China are talking behind the scenes in hopes of preventing an escalation.   It's unclear how China would respond to those aggressive measures. For now, Beijing is focusing on its response to the steel and aluminum tariffs.   China's commerce and finance ministries said in statements late Sunday that authorities are imposing tariffs of 15% on 120 American products — such as fruits, nuts, wine and steel pipes — and 25% on eight other products, including pork and recycled aluminum.   Those products make up just a tiny portion of the hundreds of billions of dollars of goods shipped between the two countries each year. But the tariffs are alarming news for the affected industries.   The US National Pork Producers Council warned last month that the measures would "have a significant negative impact on rural America." It said the US pork industry sold $1.1 billion worth of products to China last year, making it the third largest export market by value.     China is upset that Trump imposed the steel and aluminum tariffs on the grounds of national security, which Beijing says is an abuse of global trade rules.   Since first announcing the metal tariffs, the White House has said it will spare a number of allies from the measures, including Canada, Mexico, the European Union and South Korea.   China's Ministry of Commerce said in its statement late Sunday that those exemptions "seriously violate" World Trade Organization rules that prohibit members from discriminating against other WTO members.   It said it hoped the US government would withdraw the tariffs "as soon as possible so that the trading of products between China and the United States will return to a normal track."   Deputy White House Press Secretary Lindsay Walters on Monday responded to Beijing's announcement of the tariffs, saying that "instead of targeting fairly traded US exports, China needs to stop its unfair trading practices which are harming US national security and distorting global markets."   China has repeatedly said that it doesn't want a trade war but has also warned that it will take "firm and necessary" countermeasures to defend its interests.   In an opinion article Monday, China's official news agency Xinhua warned that Trump's plans to impose further trade measures on China are a "self-defeating gamble" that will cause harm to the American economy.   "Trump's planned tariffs are not only going to hamper the United States' economic well-being and continued progress, and burden its people with higher costs of living, but also pose a grave threat to the current global trading system," the article said.   Trump has long accused Beijing of stealing American jobs through unfair trade practices. He has promised to bring down the United States' huge trade deficit in goods with China, which reached $375 billion last year. But economists have cautioned that tariffs are unlikely to achieve that goal and risk hurting economic growth instead.   So far, though, neither side is backing down.   Experts say they expect further retaliation from China once the Trump administration reveals more details on which products its planned $50 billion in tariffs will target.   Arthur Kroeber, a founding partner at economic research firm Gavekal, predicted in a note to clients late last month that the next round of Chinese measures will focus on US agricultural exports from predominantly Trump-voting states.   China's approach is to show it's willing to stand up to the United States but without going as far as seriously disrupting the global trading system, according to Kroeber.   China wants "to position itself as the good guy in the global economy, protecting the rules of the game from Trump's lawless attacks," he wrote.   -- CNN's Serenitie Wang, Ivan Watson and Abby Phillip contributed to this report.   Trump administration aims to lower drug prices for seniors
The Trump administration announced several changes for Medicare plans aimed at increasing competition and reducing drug costs for senior citizens, starting in 2019. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services said Monday it will allow insurers to include certain low-cost generic drugs in their approved lists at any point in the year. Also, the agency hopes to broaden beneficiaries' choice of where they get their medications by clarifying that insurers must give all interested pharmacies an opportunity to participate in their networks.   CMS will also reduce the maximum amount that low-income beneficiaries have to pay for certain medicines, known as biosimilars.   To increase competition and choice, the agency said it will lift the regulation that limits the variety of Medicare Advantage plans an insurer can offer in a county.   There are more than 40 million seniors who have drug coverage either through stand-alone Part D insurance plans or through Medicare Advantage policies. However, it's unclear how much additional competition will reduce beneficiaries' costs, said Juliette Cubanski, associate director of the Kaiser Family Foundation's Program on Medicare Policy. Senior citizens typically have two dozen plans to choose from already.   CMS also announced yesterday that it will increase payments to insurers offering Medicare Advantage plans by an average of 3.4% next year and allow them to offer more supplemental benefits, such as handrails, shower chairs and other devices that assist the elderly. Previously, these supplemental benefits were limited to health-related items, such as gym memberships or eyeglasses.   Officials also announced Monday they are taking steps to let insurers restrict at-risk beneficiaries' access to frequently abused drugs. The agency is finalizing policies that would allow carriers to require at-risk beneficiaries to use specific doctors or pharmacies for opioid prescriptions. Also, it expects all insurers to limit initial opioid prescriptions to no more than seven days.   One policy that was not included in Monday's announcement was requiring pharmacy benefit managers to use the rebates they receive from drug manufactures to lower the price beneficiaries pay at the pharmacy. CMS Administrator Seema Verma said the agency was continuing to evaluate the issue.  Manufacturers are worried about Trump tariffs
American manufacturing executives are worried about President Trump's tariffs on steel and aluminum — and a potential trade war with China. Manufacturing activity fell slightly in March, the Institute for Supply Management said Monday. New orders and production dropped a notch, but the industry still grew for the 19th straight month.   Comments published along with the ISM report show that factory owners are concerned about the tariffs, which took effect March 23. The comments also show a contrast between Trump's promise to revive manufacturing and the real impact of his trade policy.   Trump imposed a 25% tariff on imported steel and a 10% tariff on imported aluminum. The tariff applies to most nations, although some have been given temporary exemptions.   "We are concerned about the impact of tariff and trade wars on demand," one chemical manufacturing executive told ISM. The executive noted that business conditions haven't yet changed.   "New tariffs are causing concern across the supply chain. Full impact will take a few weeks to reveal itself," another manufacturer wrote.   One machinery maker said the tariffs caused "panic buying" of raw materials, which led to a surge in prices.   "Much concern in the industry regarding the steel and aluminum tariffs recently," the person added.   ISM does not identify the executives in its survey, and it lightly edits the comments.   China retaliated against the steel and aluminum tariffs on Monday by imposing its own tariffs on American exports, including pork, fruit, nuts and wine. The products amount to about $3 billion a year, a relatively small number.   On top of the steel and aluminum tariffs, the Trump administration is expected to announce tariffs on at least $50 billion of Chinese exports to the United States. Administration officials say businesses will have two months to weigh in before Trump decides when to apply the tariffs.  China to US: We'll match your tariffs in 'scale' and 'intensity'
China says it will respond to any new trade tariffs by the United States with measures of the same scale and intensity. The warning from China's ambassador to the United States, Cui Tiankai, came after Beijing slapped tariffs on $3 billion worth of US exports including fruit, pork and steel pipes.   Those measures were in response to President Donald Trump's tariffs on steel and aluminum from China and other countries. But Trump has also announced plans to impose tariffs on about $50 billion worth of Chinese goods.   The flurry of tariffs and threats has fueled fears that the damage to trade between the world's two largest economies could get worse.   The new US measures are still taking shape. The Trump administration hasn't yet announced which specific Chinese products will be hit and is planning to take public comments for a period of weeks before putting the tariffs into effect.   When that happens, "we will certainly take countermeasures of the same proportion and of the same scale, same intensity," Cui said in an interview with China's state-run English news channel CGTN that aired Tuesday in Asia.   Trump's plan to impose tariffs on around $50 billion of Chinese goods follows a US government investigation into alleged Chinese theft of intellectual property from American companies. The probe estimated the problem costs the US economy hundreds of billions of dollars every year.     The Trump administration has said the planned tariffs will punish the Chinese aerospace, technology and machinery industries.   A spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry on Tuesday backed up the ambassador's comments, telling reporters at a regular news briefing that Beijing "will resolutely fight to the end" if it's forced into a trade war.   The spokesperson, Geng Shuang, signaled that China already has plenty more US products in mind for new sanctions if Trump goes ahead with another round of tariffs.   "The US has a list. China also will have a list," he said.   Experts have said Beijing could choose to target big US exports to China, such as soybeans and Boeing (BA) airplanes, or put the squeeze on the operations of major American companies who do significant business in the country like Apple (AAPL) and Intel (INTC).   Geng said Beijing still hopes "to resolve the differences in trade with the United States through dialogue and consultation" But he warned that "should be done with mutual respect and fairness ... not with one side being condescending and coercive."   In the TV interview, Cui defended China's approach to protecting intellectual property, saying it has been "strengthening its efforts and our legal system." He added that China was "ready for international cooperation in this area."   Foreign companies and governments have for years complained about Chinese practices, such as requiring firms to hand over trade secrets in exchange for entry into the country's huge markets.   Trump has frequently accused Beijing of stealing American jobs through unfair trade. He has promised to bring down the United States' huge trade deficit in goods with China, which reached $375 billion last year.   Economists have cautioned that tariffs are unlikely to achieve that goal and risk hurting economic growth instead.   -- CNN's Steven Jiang contributed to this report.  The UK has a major gender pay gap problem. New data proves it
Women in the United Kingdom are learning for the first time exactly how much more their male counterparts are paid. Companies and organizations that employ 250 or more people in the United Kingdom were legally required to reveal their gender pay gaps by Wednesday.   The numbers show the vast majority of businesses on average pay men more than women, a trend that cuts across all sectors of the economy and affects both public and private employees. Over 9,000 companies have submitted data.   The government hopes that "naming and shaming" companies with large pay gaps will force them to take steps to tackle inequality.   Revealing the gap   The companies are required to disclose mean and median gaps between hourly wages for male and female staff.   The mean pay gap is calculated by adding up hourly wages paid to full time male employees, and full time female employees. The sum for each category is then divided by the number of employees in each gender.   Doing so reveals how much less, in percentage terms, women are paid per hour on average.   Companies are also required to reveal the difference between median hourly rates, which compare the pay of employees at the middle of the scales. The measurement helps exclude outliers who are very highly paid. Bonus payments to men and women are compared, too.   Turner, the parent company of CNN, said in a filing Tuesday that its mean gender pay gap in the United Kingdom was 21%, while its median gap was 27%. At CNN's bureau in London, the mean gap was -3% and the median was 24%.   It's been an uncomfortable exercise for many companies, but advocates welcome the mandatory disclosures.   "It forces employers to look at themselves and understand their organizations and it prompts employees to ask some hard questions," said Sam Smethers, chief executive of Fawcett, a group that campaigns for women's rights.   Big offenders   Soccer clubs are prime offenders, dominating the top ranks of companies with the biggest mean gender pay gaps.   Stoke City Football Club, for example, reported a mean gender pay gap of 92.5% -- but that figure includes its highly paid male soccer stars. The club's median gender pay gap is 31%.   It's not just sports teams.   Fashion retailers Coast and Phase Eight, the airlines Ryanair (RYAAY), EasyJet (ESYJY) and Virgin Atlantic, and banks including HSBC (HBCYF), Goldman Sachs (GS) and JP Morgan (JPM) all reported mean pay gaps of over 50%.   What companies say   Some companies with large gaps have said they pay women and men in similar jobs the same amount. They argue the pay gaps are big because men tend to dominate highly paid positions.   Airline pilots, for example, tend to be both well compensated and male. The same is true for senior bankers.   Under the rules, companies have to disclose the percentage of women in different pay bands and the general trend is clear: most companies have higher proportion of men in top paid roles, while women tend to dominate the lowest tier.   Experts say having fewer women in senior positions is a big part of the problem.   "Many organizations consider the gender pay gap to be acceptable if men and women do different jobs or that men hold more senior positions than women ... this is worrying," said Hazel Conley, a professor of human resource management at the University of the West of England.     Change on the way?   There are signs the approach may be working -- several organizations, including the BBC and EasyJet (ESYJY), have taken very public steps in recent months to remedy pay inequity.   A report published by the BBC last July revealed that just under a third of its top paid executives, managers and media stars are women.   The BBC said in January that it would be more transparent about what it pays its correspondents, and offer salaries in narrower bands. It said it had addressed hundreds of cases of pay unfairness.   The broadcaster said some men will take substantial pay cuts, while some women and other men would see their salaries increased.   The annual salary paid to EasyJet CEO Johan Lundgren was cut by £34,000 ($48,000) to £706,000 ($994,000) in January. That's the last salary earned by his predecessor, Carolyn McCall.   The new data also revealed some success stories. Among major global companies, Unilever (UL), Toyota (TM), Mars and BP (BP) reported that women in specific divisions were paid more than their male colleagues.   Global pay gaps   While the new data is limited to workers in the UK, it is likely that the situation is similar in other developed economies.   According to The World Economic Forum, the overall gender pay gap in the United Kingdom and United Sates is similar.   Women in the United Kingdom can expect to be paid around 81 pence for every £1 a man makes. In the United States, it's about 82 cents for every dollar, according to data from the US Department of Labor.  New York Fed, a Wall Street watchdog, picks John Williams as new president
John Williams just became one of the most powerful people in the United States who is neither elected nor confirmed by Congress. Williams on Tuesday was named president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, which acts as a watchdog for Wall Street and oversees the infrastructure of financial markets. He will have a permanent vote on the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets interest rates.   Williams has been president of the San Francisco Fed since 2011. He will succeed William Dudley, who led the New York Fed for nearly a decade.   The president of the New York Fed is generally regarded as third in line behind the Fed chair and vice chair. Both those jobs require Senate confirmation, though. The head of the New York Fed is chosen by the bank's private board of directors, which consists of executives from banks big and small.   Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman is a director, but Wall Street executives had no say in picking the president. Under the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law, only two other classes of directors, from nonprofits and smaller financial institutions, get to choose.   Besides regulating banks and overseeing financial markets, the bank provides economic research on the New York metro area, New York State and Puerto Rico. It also holds the world's largest vault of gold bars. After World War II, many nations chose to store their gold reserves at the New York Fed because it was safe and trustworthy.   The New York Fed has drawn criticism for a perceived cozy relationship with Wall Street. Dudley was an economist at Goldman Sachs before joining the Fed in 2008 in a deputy role.   And the Fed in general has been criticized for a lack of diversity in senior ranks. Out of 239 senior Fed employees in Washington in 2016, only seven were Hispanic and 19 were black, according to the most recent Fed stats. Men outnumber women in the highest ranks almost two to one.   New York Fed officials will probably face criticism for choosing Williams, who is white. In a statement, the New York Fed said that Williams was a "steadfast champion of creating a diverse workforce" at the San Francisco Fed, where diversity in senior ranks improved during his tenure.   During a call with reporters, New York Fed officials also said diversity — by race, gender and viewpoint — was a major consideration of the selection process.   "John has always been willing to speak his mind and encourage the Fed to be forward looking and reflective," said Sara Horowitz, founder of the Freelancers Union, who led the search committee.     Williams, 55, has worked at the central bank for most of his career, starting as an economist in Washington in 1994. He served on President Bill Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers, then returned to the Fed.   He moved to the San Francisco bank in 2003. When he became president eight years later, he succeeded Janet Yellen, who went on to become Fed vice chair and then Fed chair.   Williams holds degrees from Stanford, the London School of Economics and the University of California, Berkeley.   He still has a steep learning curve ahead of him. The New York Fed president generally has financial market expertise. Dudley, the current president, is regarded as a market expert. Williams is not known for his market acumen.   The New York Fed supervises something known as the "repo" market or repurchase market. It's intended to ensure there is enough cash, or liquidity, in markets that trade government assets, like Treasury bonds.   In his new role as a Wall Street watchdog, Williams may also face renewed scrutiny about his oversight of Wells Fargo, which is based in San Francisco and has admitted to creating checking accounts without customers' approval.   Before Williams was announced as president, Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, said she would ask the Fed Board of Governors to make Williams testify on Capitol Hill.   "Mr. Williams' track record raises several questions, including about his fitness to supervise Wall Street banks given the San Francisco Fed's inadequate supervision of Wells Fargo during its many consumer scandals," Warren said in a statement.  Obamacare sign ups remained strong in 2018, but next year is uncertain
Obamacare remained popular with millions of Americans in 2018, despite the Trump administration's repeated attacks. Nearly 11.8 million people selected coverage for this year on the federal and state-based exchanges during a shortened open enrollment period, according to official data released Tuesday by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. That's down only 3.8%, much less than some advocates of the health reform law initially feared.   Some 8.7 million people signed up on the federal exchange, while 3 million picked plans in the 11 states and the District of Columbia, which run their own marketplaces. Some 27% of consumers were new to Obamacare, a somewhat lower share than last year. Another 24% were automatically re-enrolled, while 47% were returning customers who picked new plans, slightly higher than last year.   Enrollment isn't final until consumers pay their first month's premium, and the tally usually declines after the sign-up period.   Obamacare's open enrollment period was in the spotlight this past fall with both supporters and detractors poised to use the numbers to support their arguments. The modest dip in sign-ups allowed advocates to stress the Affordable Care Act's value to consumers.   "The administration's final open enrollment report proves, once again, how important the ACA marketplaces are for providing people with affordable, quality health care," said Josh Peck, co-founder of Get America Covered, an advocacy group. "While enrollment remained steady because of high consumer satisfaction and more affordable premiums for those who qualify for tax credits, enrollment would have outpaced previous years if the administration had focused on signing people up instead of on derailing open enrollment efforts."   Meanwhile, CMS Administrator Seema Verma said the open enrollment period was the "most cost-effective and successful" to date.  11.8 million consumers enrolled for 2018 Exchange coverage nationwide. Great job @CMSGov on the most cost-effective and successful open enrollment to date!  The Trump administration made many significant changes to the sign-up process for 2018. It cut the open enrollment period in half, slashed advertising by 90% and reduced support for enrollment assistance.   Also, many insurers fled the individual market. Those that remained hiked premiums amid the uncertainty in Washington, D.C. and President Donald Trump's elimination of funding for Obamacare's cost-sharing subsidies.   In a strange twist, richer federal premium subsidies actually made coverage more affordable for many people. Many insurers loaded the premium increases into their silver plans, upon which premium subsidies are based. So eligible consumers received larger subsidies to put toward buying silver plans or bronze policies, which have lower premiums.   These folks are paying an average of $89 a month for 2018 coverage, compared to $106 last year. The federal government, meanwhile, footed more of the bill, with the average subsidy rising to $550 a month, up from $383 a month last year.   Those who don't qualify for subsidies, however, saw their monthly rate spike to $621, up from $476. The share of consumers receiving premium assistance was 83% both this year and in 2017.  Data suggest that more affordable healthcare options are needed - especially for those forgotten women and men who are not eligible to have their premiums reduced by tax credits.  Though Obamacare remained popular this year, 2019 could prove to be a different story.   It will be the first time the individual mandate, which requires nearly all Americans to have coverage or pay a penalty, will no longer be in effect. (Congress eliminated the penalty as part of the 2017 federal tax overhaul.) Advocates fear that even more insurers will exit the exchanges, which could leave some enrollees with no options to choose from -- or only more expensive ones.   About one-third of individual market enrollees said the mandate was a "major reason" why they chose to buy insurance, according to a new Kaiser Family Foundation poll. But nine in 10 said they intend to continue their coverage.   Also, the Trump administration is allowing insurers to offer alternatives to Obamacare, which will come with lower premiums but fewer benefits. Of particular concern to health policy experts are short-term health insurance plans. The administration plans to make it easier to obtain this coverage by allowing carriers to sell policies that last just under a year, rather than a maximum of 90 days.   Many Americans are concerned about their coverage options for next year, the Kaiser poll found. Some 58% of Obamacare enrollees said they were "very worried" or "somewhat worried" that there will be no insurers selling plans in their area. Some 82% were worried that their premiums will increase so much that they won't be able to afford their current plan, while 80% were worried that co-pays and deductibles will become so high that they won't be able to afford to get the health care they need.   Some 53% of Americans -- and 60% of Obamacare enrollees -- think the exchanges are collapsing, the poll found. Actually, insurers saw their ACA divisions stabilize last year.  New poll: Most Americans -- including 6 in 10 ACA marketplace enrollees -- say the marketplaces are "collapsing" https://t.co/FO1VDViKFpReality: Insurer financial results as of the third quarter 2017 showed no sign of a market collapse https://t.co/ML1FAn3zqj pic.twitter.com/cGYDOsl09E  Just over half of Obamacare enrollees said that they were satisfied with their plan choices on the exchanges and that their health insurance was an "excellent" or "good" value, Kaiser found. Most enrollees said their premiums and deductibles were similar or lower in 2018 than in the prior year.  China's pork tariffs on the US will hurt a big Chinese company
A Chinese company is set to become a casualty of Beijing's new tariffs on US exports. China's move this week to slap tariffs on $3 billion worth of US imports, including pork products, is a blow to Virginia-based Smithfield Foods, the world's biggest pork producer.   Smithfield was bought in 2013 by China's WH Group for around $5 billion in what at the time was the biggest ever foreign takeover of a US company.   "There's no doubt that the new tariff regime will be a headache for WH Group," said Loren Puette, director at ChinaAg, an agricultural research firm.   The Hong Kong-listed shares of WH Group (WHGLY) have plunged more than 11% since Beijing first proposed sanctioning imports of pork from the United States less than two weeks ago. On Monday, it went ahead with a 25% tariff on all pork imports.   China is the third largest international market by value for American pork producers. Last year, they exported almost half a million tons of hog meat -- worth about $1.1 billion -- to the country, according to the United States Meat Export Federation, an industry group.   Valerie Law, an independent analyst in Singapore who follows the WH Group's stock, said the Chinese tariffs could reduce the company's operating profits by 12% to 18%.   A US-based spokesperson for Smithfield declined to comment Monday on the potential impact of the tariffs. WH Group didn't respond to a request for comment.   Before the tariffs came into force, Smithfield CEO Kenneth Sullivan said he thought investors had overreacted to the news.   "We export to 40 countries around the world," he said last week. While admitting that the measures "will cut into our profits," Sullivan said exports to China only made up between 5% and 7% of Smithfield's fresh pork business.   Other US pork producers that are expected to be hit by the tariffs, including Tyson Foods (TSN), whose stock dropped more than 6% on Monday.   A further escalation in trade tensions could make things even worse for WH Group.   China said it's move this week was a response to President Donald Trump's recent tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum from China and other countries.   But Trump has also announced plans for another round of tariffs targeting about $50 billion of Chinese goods in response to the alleged theft of US intellectual property. That's prompted vows from Beijing that it will hit back with measures of the same "scale" and "intensity."   American farmers are fretting that one of China's next target could be soybeans, an important US agricultural export. But sanctioning US soybean exports would have consequences for China's food industry.   "China is still heavily reliant on US soybeans to feed its pork and poultry industries," Puette said. Tariffs on soybeans would raise costs for WH Group, which also has a large pork-processing business within China itself, he said.   -- CNN's Julia Horowitz contributed to this report.  China tariffs: Artificial teeth, flamethrowers and other things on the list
The long list of Chinese products that could be subject to US tariffs is here. The Trump administration on Tuesday identified about 1,300 Chinese exports that could be targeted following a months-long investigation into intellectual property theft.   Key areas of focus include China's aerospace and manufacturing industries. Some oddities — like bookbinding machines and artificial teeth — also made the cut.   Here are some highlights.   Aerospace and marine equipment   — Air combat flying simulators — Airplane parts — Helicopters — Tanker, ferry and fishing boats   Manufacturing    — Bookbinding machines — Brewery machines — Can-sealing machines — Centrifuges — Concrete mixers — Drilling machines — Hand-held blow torches — Industrial dryers — Milking machines — Nuclear reactors — Plows — Snowplows — Textile printing machinery — TV parts — Tower cranes — Train parts — Water boilers   Medical supplies   — Artificial body parts — Artificial teeth — Catheters — Defibrillators — Dental fillings — Hearing aids — Malaria test kits — Syringes — Vaccines for humans and animals — X-ray machine parts   Other   — Artillery weapons — Cash registers — Fire extinguishers — Flamethrowers — Seismographs  US proposes tariffs on 1,300 Chinese goods
Fears of a trade war between the United States and China just escalated again. The Trump administration on Tuesday published a list of about 1,300 Chinese exports that could be targeted for tariffs.   The United States plans to apply the tariffs to about $50 billion worth of goods to punish China for its theft of trade secrets, including software, patents and other technology. A 25% tariff would be applied to all the products, according to the US Trade Representative, a wing of the White House.   Many of the tariffs would target the Chinese aerospace, tech and machinery industries. Others would target medical equipment, medicine and educational material, such as bookbinding equipment.   In a statement, the Chinese embassy in the United States said that China "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed list.   "As the Chinese saying goes, it is only polite to reciprocate," the embassy said, adding that China intends to pursue the matter with the World Trade Organization and enact "corresponding measures of equal scale and strength against U.S. products."   The tariffs won't go into effect immediately. The administration will hold a public hearing for US businesses on May 15. Even after that, it's not clear when the tariffs would be applied.   China tariffs: Artificial teeth, flamethrowers and other things on the list   US business advocates said the administration diagnosed the problem with China correctly, but had the wrong remedy.   "The administration is rightly focused on restoring equity and fairness in our trade relationship with China. However, imposing taxes on products used daily by American consumers and job creators is not the way to achieve those ends," said Myron Brilliant, executive vice president of the US Chamber of Commerce, an advocacy group that has long been opposed to Trump's trade policy.   Read the full list of proposed tariffs   A lobbying group for US farmers pleaded with the administration not to go forward with the tariffs, fearing retaliation by China, one of the largest buyers of US crops.   "We continue to urge the administration to listen to farmers across rural America who can't afford new taxes on their exports," Max Baucus, a former Democratic senator from Montana and co-chairman of Farmers for Free Trade, said in a statement.   The list came hours after China's Foreign Ministry insisted it would respond with equal measure to any US tariffs. China said it has its own list of American exports that it will target if the United States goes through with its plan.   "We have been saying that China wouldn't start a trade war," a Foreign Ministry spokesperson said in Beijing. "But we are not afraid of it, and we will resolutely fight to the end if someone insists on a war."   Leaders from both countries have been in talks for more than a week to try to make compromises and provide US companies more rights in China.   After a months-long investigation, the USTR concluded that China forces US tech companies that want to operate there to enter joint ventures with Chinese businesses and share their technology. Chinese firms often steal patents and software from the American firms, the investigation found.   There is little dispute in the United States that China does not play by the rules when it comes to tech trade. The debate in Washington is about the best way to punish China without hurting American consumers.   The United States had promised that the proposed tariffs would hit Chinese tech, aerospace, communications and machinery. But the list released Tuesday includes some unexpected items, such as malaria test kits, hearing aids, defibrillators, flame throwers, syringes, artificial teeth and X-ray machine equipment.   The USTR also proposed tariffs on Chinese-made military rifles, shotguns and grenade launchers. Turbo jet engines and certain helicopters are among those slated in Chinese aerospace to be hit with a duty. Several drilling machines are on the list as well.   The Trump administration has already imposed a 25% tariff on imported steel and a 10% tariff on imported aluminum. Those tariffs apply to most countries, including China, though some have been exempted.   China responded to the metal tariffs with its own tariffs on $3 billion of US exports to China, including fruits, wine, nuts and pork.  How tariffs on China could make your life more expensive
TVs. Dishwashers. Printers. Get ready: These are just some of the products that could get more expensive if the United States moves forward with proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese products, and companies decide to pass the cost of the new taxes on to customers.   On Tuesday, the Trump administration identified about 1,300 exports from China that could be targeted in the wake of a months-long investigation into intellectual property theft. The lengthy list includes a wide range of items, from airplane parts to syringes.   The 25% tariff, which would be applied to all products, won't go into effect immediately. And the list isn't final. There's still time for businesses to lobby the government to remove certain items, and additional products can still be tacked on.   But the current list would almost certainly lead to higher price tags on consumer electronics and various home appliances — including flat-screen TVs and home dishwashers.   "There's potential this a major hit to the pocketbooks of Americans, based on what we're seeing right now," said Jack Cutts, senior director of business research at the Consumer Technology Association.   The USTR is also weighing tariffs on a number of key components in electronic devices, such as LED lights, copper wire, and capacitors and resistors. It's possible that companies will ask consumers to pay more to make up for higher costs in the supply chain.   "We're down at the basic building blocks of consumer electronics," Cutts said. These parts are included in items from computers to printers to smart refrigerators and coffeemakers, he said.   The USTR list contains a lot of other inputs in final products, like screws, pulleys and motor parts.   Whether prices rise will ultimately depend on the availability of substitutes, said Brad Setser, senior fellow for international economics at the Council on Foreign Relations.   And companies might find ways to skirt the tariffs by making greater use of manufacturing facilities in other countries, like Brazil and Vietnam.   "Simply because it costs Apple that much more doesn't mean the consumer will pay [that much] more," said Awi Federgruen, a Columbia Business School professor who studies supply chain management.   There's no easy way to determine if companies will decide to raise prices — and if so, by how much.   Still, higher prices of any kind could make things tough on stores and shoppers — especially during the upcoming holiday season.   "These tariffs might be Grinch tariffs," said David French, senior vice president of government relations at the National Retail Federation. He noted that retailers will make decisions about where to source what they sell in December in coming weeks.   Right now, companies are combing through their supply chains to see whether they might be impacted.   The USTR list included a lot of general manufacturing equipment, so there could be additional revelations about affected products in the days and weeks to come.   For example, even though clothing, shoes and toys were excluded from the initial list, parts and machinery used to manufacture these items may have been included, which could affect pricing.   There are also lingering concerns that such items may find their way into the final draft.   "Items like apparel and footwear that are not on the list today, may suddenly materialize or appear on a later list," French said.  China fires back, announcing tariffs on US planes, cars and soybeans
China is punching back in the escalating trade dispute with the United States, announcing plans for heavy new tariffs on dozens more US goods including aircraft and autos. The Chinese Ministry of Commerce on Wednesday said it plans to impose a 25% tariff on $50 billion worth of US exports. The 106 affected products will also include soybeans and chemicals.   China's announcement is a direct response to the Trump administration's publication Tuesday of a list of about 1,300 Chinese exports -- also worth about $50 billion annually -- that it intends to target with 25% tariffs.   The quick-fire exchange of threats is intensifying fears of a full-blown trade war between the world's two largest economies. Markets dipped sharply as news of China's plans emerged.   Experts said Beijing's latest announcement could be an effort to push the United States into negotiating a deal to defuse the trade spat.   "The true purpose is not to escalate it to a trade war, but to demonstrate no weakness," said Aidan Yao, an economist at fund management firm Axa Investment Managers.   WATCH: 'Markets Now' live with Richard Quest from NYSE at 12:45 p.m. ET   It's still not clear when the new waves of tariffs announced by the two sides might take effect -- or if they'll be watered down in the meantime. China said the timing would be announced separately. The US government said it will hold a public hearing for US businesses about its plans next month.   Chinese Vice Finance Minister Zhu Guangyao said at a news conference in Beijing that the period before the tariffs go into effect is the "time to negotiate and cooperate."   Tommy Xie, an economist at Singapore-based bank OCBC, said it was unlikely that the latest tariffs from either side would come into force for another couple of months. But if talks during that period fail, then "the trade war starts," he warned.   Many of the planned US tariffs would target the Chinese aerospace, tech and machinery industries. Others would target medical equipment, medicine and educational material, such as bookbinding equipment.   China said the planned US move "seriously violates China's legitimate rights and interests under World Trade Organization rules and threatens China's economic interests and security."   Beijing has already shown it is willing to fight back. On Monday, it put into effect tariffs on about $3 billion worth of US imports, including wine, pork, fruit and steel pipes.   Those measures were a response to the Trump administration's earlier tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum from China and other countries. Beijing has called the metal tariffs an abuse of global trade rules.   The Trump administration imposed the metal tariffs on the grounds of national security. For the new round of measures against China, it's citing a months-long investigation by the US Trade Representative into alleged Chinese theft of American intellectual property.   It's a long-standing issue that US business executives and government officials have complained about, including practices like pressuring companies to hand over trade secrets in exchange for access to China's huge markets.   But Chinese government officials dismissed the allegations on Wednesday. Vice Commerce Minister Wang Shouwen said claims China had forced companies to share closely guarded technology were "fake news," insisting all such deals were mutually agreed upon by businesses.   The increasingly tense back-and-forth between Washington and Beijing over trade is freaking out markets.   After China's latest move to hit back on Wednesday, Hong Kong's benchmark Hang Seng Index slumped, closing down more than 2%. US stock futures were also pointing to losses, with the Dow down more than 2%.   Plane maker Boeing (BA) plunged more than 6% in premarket trading, and GM (GM) was down almost 4%. China is Boeing's second largest market after the United States.   Commodity markets were also suffering. The price of soybeans, a major US agricultural export to China, fell about 4%.   -- Serenitie Wang and Steven Jiang contributed to this report.  The gender pay gap is widest in these UK industries
The publication of gender pay data on over 9,000 companies in the United Kingdom is raising tough questions over how women -- and men -- are compensated. Companies with 250 or more employees in the United Kingdom were legally required to disclose gender pay data by Wednesday. The reports show that men are paid more, on average, than women in almost all workplaces.   But the gender pay gap is widest at soccer clubs, airlines, financial firms and select fashion brands.   Many companies in these sectors share a problem: Men dominate the top ranks of their pay scale, and they tend to have more women in junior roles. Experts say the imbalance is a big driver of inequality.   "Many organizations consider the gender pay gap to be acceptable if men and women do different jobs or that men hold more senior positions than women ... this is worrying," Hazel Conley, a professor at the University of the West of England, told CNN earlier this week.   Here's what's going on in each industry:   Soccer clubs   Many of the companies with the biggest mean gender pay gaps are British soccer clubs.   The mean gender pay gap compares the average hourly wage paid to women at a company to that of men. At soccer clubs, the massive salaries paid to professional players result in big differences in mean gender pay. Executive ranks are also dominated by men.   Manchester City, Tottenham Hotspurs and Arsenal reported mean hourly gender pay gaps between 80% to 87%.   The numbers change significantly when players are excluded. Arsenal said its mean pay gap drops from 80% to 17% when players were removed from the calculation.   Arsenal said it's committed to increasing diversity, and hiring more women to senior jobs.   At 93%, Stoke City Football Club has the largest mean pay gap of any company that's filed data. The club said it pays men and women the same salaries for the same jobs.   "Their data is being skewed by a high number of really highly paid people at the top," said Suzanne Doyle-Morris, an expert and consultant on gender issues in the workplace.   The median hourly pay gap at Stoke is more modest at 31%. The median gap compares the pay of individual male and female employees at the middle of the scales, which helps exclude outliers who are very highly paid.   Airlines   Pilots are well paid, and they're almost all men. Meanwhile, cabin crew jobs are often held by women, and these roles pay less. The dynamic results in large mean gender pay gaps across the airline industry.   Ryanair (RYAAY) reported a mean pay gap of 67%, the largest in the industry. Its budget competitor EasyJet (ESYJY) landed at 52%.   "Like all airlines, our gender pay in the United Kingdom is materially affected by the relatively low numbers of female pilots in the aviation industry," Ryanair said in a statement.   EasyJet CEO Johan Lundgren even took a pay cut this year to promote gender equality. Just 5% of pilots at the British carrier are female, but it has set itself the goal of hiring women to 20% of new pilot jobs by 2020.   Virgin Atlantic, Thomas Cook Airlines and TUI Airways (formerly Thomson Airways) disclosed mean hourly gaps between 57% to 58%.   Each airline issued statements alongside their gender pay reports saying male and female pilots are paid the same. They said they would work to close the pay gap by hiring more female pilots.   Banking and finance   Banks including HSBC (HSBC) and Goldman Sachs (GS) were also among the standouts.   HSBC explained that its mean pay gap -- 59% -- was the result of having more men in top jobs and more women in junior jobs. Plus, there's a higher proportion of women at the bank on part-time hours, leading to smaller bonuses.   "Our analysis shows that, in the UK, men and women are paid broadly comparable rates to market," the bank said in a statement.   Goldman Sachs had a mean gender pay gap of 56%. It said men and women in similar jobs were paid equally, but it was taking steps to get more women into senior roles.   "We have made some progress, but we have significant work to do, and we, as leaders of our firm, are committed to doing this critical work," CEO Lloyd Blankfein and President David Solomon said in March.   Fashion   Almost all employees at female-focused fashion labels Coast and Phase Eight are women. But they still have a wide gender pay gap because of the salaries of a few top male executives.   Male employees -- who nearly all work in the head offices instead of the retail stores -- earned more money and received bigger bonuses.   The difference in mean hourly pay at Coast is 71%, and 65% at Phase Eight. It's a trend that's on display at other British fashion and retail brands, too.   Coast is part of London-based Aurora Fashions, which owns other UK retailers, including Karen Millen. Its brands reported their gender gap figures separately.   Coast and Phase Eight said they pay men and women equally for doing equivalent jobs, and that a few top-paid male executives were behind the discrepancies.   The median hourly pay gap at Coast was 40%. It was 55% at Phase Eight.   Both companies said in statements that they planned to do more to promote their workers into better-paid corporate roles while providing more workplace flexibility.   "I think those companies need to think very carefully about who is buying their products and what message this sends," warned Doyle-Morris. "They should have a real pipeline of internal talent that they could foster."   Turner, the parent company of CNN, said in a filing that its mean gender pay gap in the United Kingdom was 21%, while its median gap was 27%.   At CNN's bureau in London, the mean gap showed women were paid slightly more on average. The hourly median gap was 24%, with men being paid more.  Anger. Outrage. Disbelief. What women say about the gender pay gap
Data analyst Eunice Da Silva just found out that the company she works for pays women half as much as men on average. Her reaction? "Not surprised."   Da Silva has worked as a contractor at a string of major banks in London and has seen gender inequality firsthand. All of the senior managers she works with are men.   "People who are hiring are mostly older men, and they hire people like themselves," she said. "It's a self-perpetuating problem."   Millions of women in the United Kingdom have discovered for the first time this week how much more money their male colleagues make thanks to new mandatory disclosure laws.   They are pretty angry about the results.   "I am shocked at how oblivious I've been," said one woman, who works as a manager at a major retailer with a 15% pay gap. "Now I keep looking at the men I work with and wondering how much more they're being paid."   The woman spoke anonymously because, like some others interviewed for this story, she fears that speaking out could result in her losing her job.   Under the new rules, companies with 250 or more employees are required to disclose gender pay gaps — for average pay, median pay and annual bonuses.   The deadline was Wednesday, and the picture that has emerged is not pretty.   Women are paid less than men on average by an overwhelming majority of companies, across all industries, in both private companies and public organizations.   "There will be women all over the country who are quite simply being cheated... this practice has to end," said Sam Smethers, chief executive of Fawcett, a group that campaigns for women's rights.     Reactions to the data have ranged from disbelief to anger and outrage.   When journalist Sarah Knapton found out that her newspaper, the Daily Telegraph, had a mean pay gap of 35%, she vented her anger publicly.   "Hugely dispiriting ... Have sudden desire to throw myself under a horse," she tweeted, referring to an incident in which a suffragette threw herself under a horse in 1913 to protest women being denied the right to vote.     Oxford University professor Gina Neff was upset to find out that the mean pay gap at her university was 24.5%.   "I expected better, but I am not surprised," she in an interview. "I am resolved to make it better."   She sees the data as a challenge to the idea that career progression in academia is based on merit.   "We know women go in great numbers to universities, they go to graduate school in great numbers ... it is as they progress through their carriers that women are not being retained and they are not being promoted at the same rates as men," Neff said.   Data reported by Oxford show that nearly 63% of the university's top paid employees are men, while women make up 65% of the lowest pay band.   Oxford said in a statement that the lack of women in senior roles "remains a challenge" across higher education. "We continue to work, however, with enthusiasm, energy and determination to address the considerable imbalance," it said.   Women also lamented the long-term consequences of the gender imbalance.   "I am 58 and have been underpaid over and over during my career," said one tech worker in London. In one of her previous jobs, she discovered men with the same title were paid 30% more. So she quit.   "Male friends are retiring comfortably on their pensions while my own pension suffered badly without promotion, having to jump jobs constantly and getting paid less," she said.   Some women declined to be interviewed for this article because they are hoping to renegotiate their pay — exactly the result advocates were hoping for.   "Gender pay gap reporting ... forces employers to look at themselves and understand their organizations and it prompts employees to ask some hard questions," said Smethers. "Finally women are realizing that they have a right to talk about pay and they cannot be silenced."   Da Silva, the data analyst, made that leap several years ago.   "I used to be a permanent employee at a telecom company and I was for sure paid less than my male colleagues," she said.   After six and half years in the industry, she decided to become an independent contractor. That gave her much more transparency and control over her own pay.   "I wanted to find out what I was really worth," she said.   Turner, the parent company of CNN, said its mean gender pay gap in the United Kingdom was 21%, while its median gap was 27%.   At CNN's bureau in London, the mean gap showed women were paid slightly more on average. The hourly median gap was 24%, with men being paid more.  Medicare Advantage plans will soon cover things like groceries, air conditioners 
Air conditioners for people with asthma, healthy groceries, rides to medical appointments and home-delivered meals may be among the new benefits added to Medicare Advantage coverage when new federal rules take effect next year. On Monday, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services expanded how it defines the "primarily health-related" benefits that insurers are allowed to include in their Medicare Advantage policies. And insurers would include these extras on top of providing the benefits traditional Medicare offers.   "Medicare Advantage beneficiaries will have more supplemental benefits, making it easier for them to lead healthier, more independent lives," said CMS Administrator Seema Verma.   Of the 61 million people enrolled in Medicare last year, 20 million have opted for Medicare Advantage, a privately run alternative to the traditional government program. Advantage plans limit members to a network of providers. Similar restrictions may apply to the new benefits.   Many Medicare Advantage plans already offer some health benefits not covered by traditional Medicare, such as eyeglasses, hearing aids, dental care and gym memberships. But the new rules, which the industry sought, will expand that significantly to items and services that may not be directly considered medical treatment.   CMS said the insurers will be permitted to provide care and devices that prevent or treat illness or injuries, compensate for physical impairments, address the psychological effects of illness or injuries, or reduce emergency medical care.   Although insurers are still in the early stages of designing their 2019 policies, some companies have ideas about what they might include. In addition to transportation to doctors' offices or better food options, some health insurance experts said additional benefits could include simple modifications in beneficiaries' homes, such as installing grab bars in the bathroom, or aides to help with daily activities, including dressing, eating and other personal care needs.   "This will allow us to build off the existing benefits that we already have in place that are focused more on prevention of avoidable injuries or exacerbation of existing health conditions," said Alicia Kelley, director of Medicare sales for Capital District Physicians' Health Plan, a nonprofit serving 43,000 members in 24 upstate New York counties.   Even though a physician's order or prescription is not necessary, the new benefits must be "medically appropriate" and recommended by a licensed health care provider, according to the new rules.   Many beneficiaries have been attracted to Medicare Advantage because of its extra benefits and the limit on out-of-pocket expenses. However, CMS also cautioned that new supplemental benefits should not be items provided as an inducement to enroll.   The new rules "set the stage to continue to innovate and provide choice," said Cathryn Donaldson, of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group.   "CMS is catching up with the rest of the world in terms of its understanding of how we keep people healthy and well and living longer and independently, and those are all positive steps," said Ceci Connolly, chief executive officer of the Alliance of Community Health Plans, which represents nonprofit health insurance plans. Some offer non-emergency medical transportation, low-cost hearing aids, a mobile dental clinic and a "grocery on wheels," to make shopping more convenient, she said.   UnitedHealthcare, the largest health insurer in the US, also welcomes the opportunity to expand benefits, said Matt Burns, a company spokesman. "Medicare benefits should not be one-size-fits-all, and continued rate stability and greater benefit design flexibility enable health plans to provide a more personalized health care experience," he said.   But patient advocates including David Lipschutz. senior policy attorney at the Center for Medicare Advocacy, are concerned about those who may be left behind.   "It's great for the people in Medicare Advantage plans, but what about the majority of the people who are in traditional Medicare?" he asked. "As we tip the scales more in favor of Medicare Advantage, it's to the detriment of people in traditional Medicare."   The details of the 2019 Medicare Advantage benefit packages must first be approved by CMS and will be released in the fall, when the annual open enrollment begins. It's very likely that all new benefits will not be available to all beneficiaries since there is "tremendous variation across the country" in what plans offer, said Gretchen Jacobson, associate director of the Kaiser Family Foundation's Program on Medicare Policy.   Kaiser Health News (KHN) is a nonprofit news service covering health issues. It is an editorially independent program of the Kaiser Family Foundation that is not affiliated with Kaiser Permanente.  US-China trade war fears: How bad could this get?
The tariffs that China and the United States threatened this week could harm both sides. But they're not apocalyptic. Not yet. More concerning is what's next. Escalation is the real concern in a trade war.   Neither side has said when it will, if ever, actually impose the tariffs. Without question, though, the tariffs would raise prices for US consumers and penalize American farmers.   "The big concern is that nobody knows, and nobody has a plan, for how this ends," says Chad Bown, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a pro-trade research group in Washington. "We're not in a trade war, but we're definitely headed down a slippery slope."   As expected, the Trump administration announced tariffs on Tuesday on about $46 billion of Chinese exports to the United States, including jet engines, medical equipment and machinery. The government is holding a public hearing on May 15 for US businesses to air concerns to administration officials.   The tariffs represent the US response to China's theft of US intellectual property, including software, patents and commerce technology.   The United States would be applying tariffs to 9% of China's annual exports to the US, according to Panjiva, a research firm owned by S&P Global.   China responded Wednesday by announcing plans for a 25% tariff on about $50 billion worth of American exports. The tariff would apply to more than 100 products, including soy. American soy farmers depend heavily on China. They sold 61% of soy to China last year, according to the US soybean export council.   At this moment, China appears to be attacking states — and workers — that voted for Trump in the 2016 election.   "You're going to have a lot of sectors of the US economy in places that have been fairly supportive of the president where they will all the sudden start to feel some pain -- and that's deliberate," says Phil Levy, senior fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. If the tariffs are implemented "US consumers are going to take a beating."   The fear is that neither Chinese officials nor President Trump seem keen to back down from their positions. Trump, citing the US trade deficit with China, appeared to argue that going head to head wouldn't be so bad.  When you're already $500 Billion DOWN, you can't lose!    For their part, Chinese officials say they will match any US trade action and "will fight to the end" of a trade war.   Experts say they don't know an easy way, politically, to dodge a trade war.   "What's next is we're going to see a tit-for-tat retaliation," says Joseph Brusuelas, chief US economist at RSM, a global accounting and consulting firm. "This is a classic lose-lose proposition, no one wins."   A key unknown factor is whether the tariff talk is all bluster and negotiating tactic — or actual trade policy that the United States plans to implement come hell or high water. President Trump has routinely made stark comments and threats on trade, then the actual policy gets diluted.   For example, after threatening to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum from every nation, Trump granted exemptions for the European Union and six other major nations. He also threatened to tear up a trade deal with South Korea. The United States and South Korea recently reached a deal in principle. He said he would label China a currency manipulator. He didn't.   And both the United States and China acknowledge they are in active negotiations. Still, experts worry that the United States hasn't been clear with China about what exactly it wants. They say the Trump strategy could falter in the face of a stoic China.   "I assume a good portion of it is negotiating tactic. The question is whether the tactic will backfire," says Matthew Rooney, director of economic growth at the Bush Institute, a research wing of the George W. Bush presidential library. "We've embarked on an experiment with protectionism. It hasn't worked in the past; I doubt it will work this time."  US-China trade battle: How we got here
The world's two biggest economies are locked in a trade tit-for-tat. China and the United States have announced tariffs on more than $100 billion of combined goods.   The latest salvo came Wednesday, when the Chinese government proposed new tariffs on dozens of US products including airplanes, cars and soybeans.   But the impending trade war between the Trump administration and China has been building up for almost a year.   Here's who did what, and when:   April 2017 -- Trump launches investigation into steel imports:    President Trump, who has repeatedly vowed to bring manufacturing and jobs back to the United States, directs the Department of Commerce to investigate whether imports of foreign steel from China and other countries could be a threat to national security.   August 2017 -- Another investigation tightens the screws on China   Trump launches a second government probe, explicitly targeted at China. He asks US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to look into unfair China's trade practices, with a particular focus on alleged Chinese theft of US intellectual property.   The government agency later estimates that intellectual property theft by China costs the US "between $225 billion and $600 billion" every year.   China's state-run media says the probe will "poison" the relationship between the two countries, while the Chinese government later slams the Trump administration's "unilateralism and protectionism."   A quiet few months   The Trump administration's threats against China, including the two probes, don't lead to tangible action over the rest of 2017 as Trump shows restraint amid a budding relationship with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping.   However, experts warn that 2018 could be a different story, calling a trade war between the two gargantuan economies increasingly likely.   January 2018 -- First, solar panels and washing machines   The first major trade action against China comes at the beginning of the year, when the US announces a 30% tariff on imported solar panels -- most of which come from China -- and taxes on large residential washing machines starting at 20%.   China expresses "strong dissatisfaction" over the decision, adding that it "aggravates the global trade environment."   Other affected countries, including South Korea and Mexico, threaten varying degrees of retaliation to the tariffs.   February 2018 -- Commerce Department proposes tariffs   The department, led by Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, proposed a range of tariffs in February 2018 including 24% on steel and 7.7% on aluminum.   While US steelmakers supported tariffs on their foreign counterparts, much of Corporate America warned that they could backfire and ignite a trade war.   China said it will "take necessary measures to defend our rights" if it is hit with tariffs.   March 9, 2018 -- Trump imposes tariffs on steel imports   Trump follows through on the tariffs recommended by his commerce department, taxing steel imports at 25% and imported aluminum at 10%.   US neighbors Canada and Mexico are exempted from the tariffs, with Trump saying other countries could potentially receive similar exemptions if they can "ensure that their products no longer threaten our security."   China, the world's biggest steel exporter, calls the tariffs "a serious attack" on international trade and says it will take "firm action" if Chinese businesses suffer losses as a result.   April 2, 2018 -- China hits back    Beijing imposes tariffs on US imports worth around $3 billion, including a 15% duty on 120 American products including fruits, nuts, wine and steel pipes and a 25% tax on eight others, like recycled aluminum and pork.   The Chinese government says its tariffs are specifically in response to the US trade measures against steel and aluminum.   One of the notable casualties of the Chinese tariffs is a US company that's owned by China. Virginia-based Smithfield Foods, the world's biggest pork producer, will likely be hit hard. Shares in China's WH Group, which owns Smithfield, have plunged more than 11% since the tariffs were first proposed two weeks ago.   April 3, 2018 -- US targets another $50 billion in Chinese goods   Trump's next set of potential tariffs comes barely 24 hours after China's first retaliation. In response to the August 2017 investigation into Chinese intellectual property theft, the US Trade Representative proposes a 25% tax on close to 1,300 Chinese goods from the aerospace, machinery and medical industries.   "We have been saying that China wouldn't start a trade war," a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson said in Beijing. "But we are not afraid of it, and we will resolutely fight to the end if someone insists on a war."   April 4, 2018 -- China targets another $50 billion in American goods   The Chinese government announces yet another set of retaliatory tariffs that nearly mirror the Trump administration's proposal a day earlier -- 25% on a range of products from the US, worth approximately $50 billion.   The 106 products on China's list include aircraft and automobiles as well as soybeans and chemicals.   Global markets have been hit hard by the Chinese announcement, as have the products on the list and the companies making them. Airplane manufacturer Boeing slumped more than 6% in premarket trading, while carmaker General Motors and the price of soybeans fell close to 4% each.  Are we in a trade war yet?
Are we there yet? Has Donald Trump started a trade war with China, the world's second largest economy? Wall Street certainly is worried he has. Economists aren't as sure.   This week, the United States announced a range of tariffs on Chinese goods, claiming that China is stealing US intellectual property. China responded with its own tariffs on US goods within hours. The moves follow US tariffs that were imposed earlier this year on Chinese steel and aluminum, which also prompted a response from China.   But economists say the US isn't in a trade war, at least "not yet."   "The odds have gone up considerably," said Bill Reinsch, senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a think tank.   "What happened so far is what typically happens — we do something, they do something back more or less equivalent, then we glare at each other," he said. "The war starts if they do something in excess of what we've done, or if we counter-retaliate to what we've done."   It's that risk of escalation that has the experts so scared. "The rhetoric is different this time around," said Jay Bryson, international economist with Wells Fargo. "This is most serious situation I can think of in at least the last 40 or 50 years."   Of course, there have been countless tariffs and trade disputes in the past that never escalated to the status of full-blown trade war. And the latest US tariffs won't even take effect until at least next month. But if the US does get into a full-scale trade war, it would be the first time since the Great Depression.   It's difficult to determine what constitutes a trade war, since there isn't a bright line between a trade dispute and a war. "There isn't a hard and fast definition," said Bryson.   But some developments would clearly signal that we're in a trade war.   "If the Chinese decide to devalue the yuan, if they throw American companies out or make it hard for American companies to come in, if they decide to cut back on direct investment in the US, that's a war," said Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody's Analytics.   Even if the current trade skirmishes don't constitute a full war, they can still cause pain for many US businesses and their employees. That includes companies that can no longer sell goods and services to China, and businesses and consumers who can no longer buy the lower priced Chinese imports they've come to depend upon.  US business to Trump: Don't go through with China tariffs
American business organizations have an urgent message for President Trump: Please don't do this. Hours after both the United States and China detailed plans for sweeping tariffs, trade groups warned that a tit-for-tat trade war between the world's two largest economies will have no winners.   The Trump administration late Tuesday unveiled a list of 1,300 Chinese products, like flat-screen televisions, aircraft parts and batteries, that could be hit with 25% tariffs. Beijing responded with plans to target products made by American soybean farmers, car makers, chemical companies and other corporations.   "It should surprise no one that China immediately retaliated against our most important exports, including soybeans," John Heisdorffer, president of the American Soybean Association and an Iowa farmer, said in a statement Wednesday. "We have been warning the administration and members of Congress that this would happen since the prospect for tariffs was raised."   Trade groups representing some of the biggest companies in America — Walmart, Target, Facebook, Boeing and IBM — have been urging the Trump administration to refrain from imposing tariffs against China, warning of the calamity it could cause for the economy by raising the costs of consumer goods.   "Unilaterally imposing $50 billion of new tariffs without a long-term strategy that leads to economic reforms in China will only hurt America's businesses, workers, and families," the Business Roundtable, which represents top CEOs from companies like JPMorgan, 3M and Apple, tweeted Tuesday night.  BRT statement on the Administration's announcement of $50 billion in new U.S. tariffs to be applied to a proposed list of Chinese products: https://t.co/fOFOSxyAMW pic.twitter.com/S7AK95WPnb  A group of 46 US industry and trade associations made a final plea to Trump in a letter earlier this week, arguing that "the imposition of sweeping tariffs would trigger a chain reaction of negative consequences for the US economy."   "The ultimate fear is we don't know when it ends," said David French, a senior vice president of government relations for the National Retail Federation, a trade group that represents thousands of retailers, including Walmart and Target. "It's one more level of escalation."   And although many US companies agree that Beijing treats them unfairly, many are hoping the Trump administration will avert the trade war.   "The administration is rightly focused on restoring equity and fairness in our trade relationship with China," Myron Brilliant, executive vice president and head of international affairs at the US Chamber of Commerce, said Tuesday night. "However, imposing taxes on products used daily by American consumers and job creators is not the way to achieve those ends."   On Wednesday, President Trump's top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, sought to downplay fears of a trade war, saying the threat of new tariffs is all part of the administration's negotiation strategy.   "I don't think people should overreact right now," Kudlow told reporters outside the White House. "This is a negotiation using all the tools."   Kudlow also clarified that Tuesday night's move by the administration to impose tariffs was simply a proposal.   "There's no action here and you're going to go through a process of comments and resubmitting comments and discussions," Kudlow said. "You're not likely to see any definitive actions for a couple of months."   Business leaders will have the chance at a public hearing in May to express their concerns to the administration.   In the meantime, they embraced Kudlow's message as yet another opportunity to convince the Trump administration of the harmful effect tariffs could have on the nation's economy.   Boeing, the aerospace giant, said it was "confident that dialogue continues."   "While both governments have outlined positions that could do harm to the global aerospace industry, neither has yet imposed these drastic measures," the company said in a statement.   Top administration officials have signaled they could solve the trade dispute at the bargaining table. For now, proposed US tariffs won't take effect until after a 60-day comment period has ended.   "We're encouraged they've provided a comment period," said Josh Kallmer, senior vice president for the Information Technology Industry Council, whose members include Amazon, Dell and Google. "We now have the opportunity to change the path of tariffs and put it more on a trajectory of targeting China's policies without harming US workers."   The National Corn Growers Association, which represents the interests of more than 300,000 growers, said the United States needs to be "measured" in its approach to keep its trade doors open with China.   "We do have a window of opportunity to reach a mutually beneficial trade position with China until the time that tariffs are implemented," said Wesley Spurlock, chairman of the trade group and a Texas farmer.   — CNN's Abby Phillip contributed to this report.  How China gets what it wants from American companies
China is vital for many top international brands, but doing business there often comes with a high entry fee. Some major US companies including GM (GM) and Qualcomm (QCOM) sell more of their products in China than anywhere else in the world.   "Our economic interests with China are significant and growing," said Jacob Parker, vice president of the US-China Business Council, a trade group that represents US companies' interests in China. "China is a $600 billion market for the American economy."   But the Chinese government is now coming under increased pressure over the demands it makes of foreign firms seeking to gain access to that vast market. The Trump administration is pointing to unfair practices by Beijing as the reason for US plans to slap tariffs on around $50 billion of Chinese goods, a move that has intensified fears of a trade war between the two countries.   International companies have long complained that China has strong-armed them into handing over trade secrets in exchange for market access. In some sectors, Beijing will only let foreign firms operate through joint ventures in which Chinese partners have the majority stake.   'Training their future competitors'   That's the case in the auto industry, where many top brands like GM (GM), Volkswagen (VLKAF) and Toyota (TM) have teamed up with local players rather than face steep tariffs on imported vehicles.   The partnerships have often delivered blockbuster sales, but they have also raised concerns that they lead to Chinese companies getting their hands on their foreign partners' technologies.   International automakers are "training their future competitors and receiving only a fraction of what their intellectual property would earn" if they were allowed to go it alone in China, said Mary Lovely, a professor at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.   "It's no surprise that some domestic Chinese brands resemble American or European models" because of this practice, said Scott Kennedy, a China expert at the Center for Strategic & International Studies.   New technology at stake   The race to develop the cutting-edge technologies that power electric vehicles has intensified concerns.   A report published last week by US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer claimed that Chinese government rules mean foreign firms have to hand over all of the key technologies used in electric vehicles if they want to sell them in China.   Foreign companies often have to "make difficult choices about managing the trade-off of technology sharing and market access," said Parker, the US-China Business Council executive. He said that about a fifth of American companies operating in China have been asked to transfer technology to Chinese partners in the past three years.   The true figure could be even higher. Surrendering key technologies and intellectual property to Chinese firms is a sensitive topic.   "Firms currently operating in China may be reluctant to speak out against the practice because they fear it will hurt their current business," Lovely said.   Companies that refuse to play ball are left on the outside, forced to pay potentially hefty tariffs at the border for the goods they ship to China.   That's the case with electric car maker Tesla (TSLA), which has been trying for years to strike a deal to build a factory inside China without a local partner.   CEO Elon Musk voiced his frustration earlier this month, tweeting at President Donald Trump that "the current rules make things very difficult. It's like competing in an Olympic race wearing lead shoes."   Boeing's success   There are exceptions to the rule, though. Boeing (BA) has enjoyed bumper sales in China without having to surrender key technologies or expertise.   China is Boeing's second biggest market after the United States, generating revenues of almost $12 billion for the company last year. But the plane maker only does a small amount of manufacturing in China and doesn't have any major joint ventures there.   The company runs a Chinese factory in partnership with the country's state-owned jet maker Comac, but it only puts the finishing touches on planes, like installing seats and stapling carpets. There's "no real technology transfer," said Richard Aboulafia, a vice president at the Teal Group, an aviation consultancy.   That's most likely because China needs Boeing's planes for its rapidly growing air travel industry. Its airlines have very limited alternatives to Boeing and European plane maker Airbus (EADSF).   Unlike in the auto sector, China has had difficulty cultivating jet manufacturers that can compete with foreign rivals. Comac's ARJ21, the Chinese government's first attempt at building its own jetliner, has struggled commercially.   "Getting into the car industry is much easier than getting into the jetliner industry," Aboulafia said.   Even Beijing's new proposed tariffs of 25% on American aircraft imports may leave Boeing largely unscathed. The tariffs would only apply to planes below a certain weight, suggesting most Boeing jets on order in China would be unaffected, according to analysts at equity research firm Vertical Research Partners.   Beijing's defense   Many foreign companies that are already established in China are also unhappy about how things work there.   In its latest annual survey, the American Chamber of Commerce in China found that almost half of its members feel foreign businesses are treated unfairly by the Chinese government compared with local ones.   They complain about regulations being inconsistently applied and continuing restrictions on their ability to invest across wide swathes of the economy.   Some recent Chinese deals have been blocked in the United States over national security concerns. But international business leaders have pointed out that Chinese companies are often able to carry out takeovers in Europe and North America in sectors that are off limits to foreign investors in China.   Chinese government officials have rejected accusations that foreign companies are treated unfairly and dismissed the findings of the US Trade Representative's report on intellectual property theft as "unfounded."   Beijing argues that any tech secrets that firms handed over in the country were part of deals that had been mutually agreed upon. And it insists that it is working to strengthen intellectual property protection in the country more broadly.   "We are ready to look at the specific cases if there is any violation of intellectual property rights ... We are ready to deal with these issues in accordance with our own laws," Cui Tiankai, China's ambassador to the United States, said this week.  Opioid addiction treatments are costing employers billions
The cost of treating opioid addiction among American workers and their families has skyrocketed in recent years, a new study has found. People covered by employer health insurance received $2.6 billion worth of treatment for opioid addiction and overdoses in 2016, up from $273 million in 2004, according to a report published Thursday by the Kaiser Family Foundation. Some $2.3 billion was covered by insurance, while patients shelled out $335 million.   Just over half the spending was for the treatment of workers' children, while just under a third was for the employee themselves. The rest covered spouses' treatment.   The report provides yet another data point on the toll opioids are taking on American life. The Trump administration, lawmakers, governors and many others are looking for ways to curb the epidemic. The head of the US Food and Drug Administration, Scott Gottlieb, told CNN's Sanjay Gupta Wednesday that doctors should undergo mandatory training on pain management and the prescribing of painkillers. Also, Congress has held numerous hearings and introduced legislation hoping to address the problem.   Roughly $1.3 billion was spent on outpatient treatment in 2016, with the average expense coming in at $4,700, according to Kaiser. Employees footed $670 of that bill.   Some $911 million went toward inpatient care, which cost $16,100 on average. Workers were responsible for a little more than $1,600. Prescription drugs used for treatment cost $435 million.     These figures include only payments for treatment covered at least in part by insurance, not services that are fully paid for out-of-pocket and not billed to insurance. So it's likely the full cost of treatment is even higher, Kaiser notes. The report analyzed claims from employers with more than 1,000 workers.   The spending spike on opioid treatment comes even as the use of painkillers has declined.   In 2016, only 13.6% of enrollees had a opioid prescription, down from a peak of 17.3% in 2009 and 15.7% in 2004. Some of the steepest reductions were among people with complications from pregnancy or childbirth, musculoskeletal conditions, cancer and injuries.   People ages 55 to 64 had the highest share of opioid prescriptions, and women were somewhat more likely to have received a painkiller prescription than men. Opioid prescriptions were also more common in the South than in the West or Northeast.   In total, large employers and their enrollees spent $1.4 billion on prescription painkillers in 2016, down 27% from the 2009 peak. Workers paid a total of $263 million for the medications.  UK 'sin taxes' are working. Here's the proof
First it was plastic. Then diesel cars. Soda is next. The United Kingdom is on a mission to change people's behavior by slapping new taxes on products deemed harmful to health and the environment.   The government has, in quick succession, introduced new or higher taxes on plastic bags, diesel cars and sugary soft drinks in an attempt to undermine their popularity.   The moves have prompted some criticism. The Institute of Economic Affairs, a free market think tank, ranked the United Kingdom as the second worst country in the European Union for "nanny state oppression," after Finland.   There are signs, however, that the taxes are producing exactly the results policymakers were hoping for:   1. Plastic bags   Customers at large UK retailers have been paying 5 pence (7 cents) for plastic shopping bags since 2015.   The government wanted to reduce the number of bags used, while also cutting down on waste, litter and environmental degradation.   In the year leading up to April 2017, top retailers gave out around 83%, or 6 billion, fewer bags as a result of the tax, according to government research. That translates to 25 bags per person instead of 140.   The big payoff? A study published Thursday in the journal Science of the Total Environment showed a decline in the number of plastic bags found in coastal waters.   2. Sugary soft drinks   The United Kingdom will implement a new tax on sugary soft drinks on Friday.   Drinks with total sugar content above 5 grams per 100 milliliters will be affected by the levy, with a higher rate for drinks with more than 8 grams.   The new tax was announced in 2016 as part of an effort to reduce sugar consumption and childhood obesity -- and evidence shows it's already working.    The government said Thursday that more than 50% of manufacturers have already cut the sugar content of their drinks.   3. Diesel cars   A higher tax on diesel vehicle purchases was introduced on April 1.   The government said the measure was aimed at improving air quality by getting dirty cars off the road.   The new levy is discouraging purchases. Plans to ban sales of new gasoline and diesel cars starting in 2040 and the Volkswagen diesel emissions scandal have also scared away buyers.   UK diesel car sales slumped 37% over the previous year in March, according to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders. Declines in January and February were in the 25% range.   Analysts said the new tax has created confusion among buyers because some very clean models that would be exempt are not yet for sale.   Colin Couchman, the director of global automotive sales forecasting at IHS Markit, said that many are buying gasoline cars or simply holding off their purchases because "clean" models remain very expensive.  China takes aim at America's soybean farmers 
American soybean farmers are worried about their best customer. China was the United States' largest buyer last year, gobbling up $12.3 billion worth of soybeans, according to the Department of Agriculture. But China is planning to make US farmers pay a 25% tariff to sell beans in the country in retaliation for President Trump's proposed tariffs on Chinese goods.    Chinese tariffs would hit farm states and more than 300,000 soybean jobs. Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Indiana and Nebraska were the largest soybean producers in 2016, according to the Agriculture Department.   "For those farmers that are operating on thin lines of profit and credit and are already financially unstable, it easily has the ability to be the straw that breaks the camel's back," said Brent Bible, who grows soybeans and corn on 5,000 acres in Lafayette, Indiana. Bible is also a member of Farmers for Free Trade, a group that opposes Trump's tariffs.   China has "the ability to be stubborn for a lot longer than we can remain solvent," he said.   Tariffs would cause Bible to re-evaluate his planting strategy and possibly cut back on growing soybeans. "Do I want to plant a crop that looks more likely [to] lose money?" he wondered.   Soybeans are America's leading agricultural export, with $21.6 billion in sales last year. Nearly 60% of the beans went to China, followed by Mexico and Japan, according to Panjiva, a research firm.   American soybean production exceeds this country's demand for the crop, forcing producers to look overseas. More than half of the US soy crop is exported every year, according to the American Soybean Association, an industry trade group.   China has been an eager buyer.   Chinese companies buy raw beans from US producers and crush them up to use as a protein source in animal feed. The average soy bean seed is 36% protein, said Bill Nelson, an economist at Doane Advisory Services. Soybeans are also processed into cooking oil, used for diesel production and blended into foods like tofu and milk.   China is "trying to improve the diet of the average Chinese person. That has involved a phenomenal increase in the amount of protein meals they are consuming," Nelson said.   Farmers have benefited as China puts muscle on pigs, cows and chickens with the help of US soybeans. US bean exports to China have nearly tripled in the past decade to 32 million tons, according to the Agriculture Department.   But Brazil has overtaken the United States as China's largest soybean importer, and tariffs targeting American beans could widen Brazil's lead or boost Argentina, the third largest supplier to China.   Tariffs would make US beans less competitive to Chinese buyers and Brazil's crop more attractive. "World demand will remain roughly the same, but all these extra expenses will have to pass through," Nelson said. "Farmers are going to be the victim."   Brazil has already ramped up its crop for 2018, and its beans are slightly richer in protein than the United States' -- points that "likely underscore the Chinese government's confidence to retaliate," Barclays' Adam Seiden wrote in a note Wednesday.   Weather can influence soybeans' protein proportion, and Brazil has experienced warmer seasons, Nelson noted.   Kevin Scott, a fourth generation farmer in Valley Springs, South Dakota, said a 25% tariff to sell in China would lead to Chinese buyers offering lower prices for his beans. Scott estimated that would dent his annual profit by up to $100,000.   "We're at break even. We've not been doing extremely well for the last four years," Scott said in an interview. "There would be a lot of farmers that would have to quit what they do" if Chinese tariffs went into effect before peak demand begins in September.   Lower prices on soybeans might actually help major US protein companies, Aslam noted. Shares of Tyson Foods (TSN), Hormel Foods (HRL), Sanderson Farms (SAFM) and Pilgrims Pride (PPC) all rose Wednesday.   But Scott said the tariff threat will rally farmers and growers to push back hard in Washington: "This will fire us up."   Advocates for the soybean industry are already sounding the alarm, and lawmakers in farm states hear it.   "Farmers and ranchers shouldn't be expected to bear the brunt of retaliation for the entire country. It's not fair, and it doesn't make economic sense," Iowa Republican Senator Chuck Grassley said in a statement. The Trump administration should "mitigate the damage it caused," Grassley said.   Chinese tariffs "will have a devastating effect on every soybean farmer in America," American Soybean Association President John Heisdorffer said in a statement.   The group said that a 40-cent drop in the price of soybean bushel futures Wednesday had cost farmers $1.7 billion in crop value.   For Bret Davis, a farmer in Delaware, Ohio, and a member of the trade group, that amounted to a $35,000 loss.  US job market poised for a milestone: 90 straight months of gains
It's been a volatile week for the US economy, but it should end with good news. March is expected to be the 90th straight month that the economy has added jobs — a run of seven and a half years. That will extend the longest streak since the Labor Department started publishing jobs data in the 1930s.   Economists forecast that Friday's report will show the economy added 185,000 jobs last month.   The streak of job growth began way back in October 2010. "Jackass 3D" led box office sales, the San Francisco Giants won their first title since 1954, and a guy named Bruno Mars had his first No. 1 song. (It was "Just the Way You Are," which sums up the job market ever since — lots of job growth, falling unemployment and sluggish wage growth.)   The American economy has come a long way by other, more reliable standards.   Back then, the unemployment rate was 9.4%. By February of this year, unemployment was 4.1%, the lowest since 2000. The economy has added 17.8 million jobs since October 2010, according to Labor Department figures.   The jobs streak has coincided with nearly nine years of economic growth, the third longest expansion in history, behind only the 1960s and 1990s. Growth has been consistent, albeit anemically slow for much of those nine years.   The job gains haven't been even, but just about every major industry has added positions.   Some economists argue the hiring spree has been hindered by a surge in low-wage retail and restaurant jobs. Others point out that health care, education and business services, which generally provide middle-class jobs, have boomed, too.   Critics of the recovery also note that America has added more bartenders and waiters than construction and factory jobs, which are higher-paying positions.   The trends of the expansion still play a big role in today's politics and policies. President Trump won in 2016 in part by promising to boost manufacturing. But his trade policy would actually hurt many manufacturers, according to surveys of manufacturing executives.   Since October 2010, the United States has added about:   — 4 million jobs in professional and business services. — 2.5 million restaurant and bar jobs. — 2.1 million health care jobs. — 1.7 million construction jobs. — 1.1 million manufacturing jobs.   The Achilles' heel has been wage growth. Wages grew at a 1.9% pace in October 2010. This past February, they were up 2.6% — much lower than expected after seven and a half years of job growth, and with unemployment at a historic low.   Wage growth has been slow for many reasons, but mainly because productivity — how much and how quickly workers operate — has also grown slowly. Economists anticipate that wages will finally pick up in a meaningful way later this year if job growth continues at this pace and unemployment stays low.  How much ammo does China have for a trade war?
Escalating tensions with the United States may put China's trade war arsenal to the test. During a dizzying week in which the world's two largest economies exchanged threats of heavy tariffs, Beijing has insisted that it's ready to wage a trade war "to the end."   President Donald Trump upped the ante late Thursday with a threat to slap tariffs on a further $100 billion of Chinese exports. That prompted the Chinese government to warn it's willing to take "new comprehensive measures" in response.   But China faces a problem: it ships far more goods to the United States ($505 billion last year) than come back in the opposite direction ($130 billion). That leaves the US government with a lot more Chinese exports to potentially target with tariffs.   If China "were to try and respond in kind, there would not be enough US goods to tariff," said Alex Wolf, an emerging markets economist at fund manager Aberdeen Standard Investments.   Have questions about China, tariffs and a possible trade war? Ask them here   Beijing already announced plans earlier this week for steep new tariffs on $50 billion worth of major US exports, including planes, cars and soybeans. But beyond those measures, it still has "many options" for responding to further US measures, said Larry Hu, a Hong Kong-based economist at investment bank Macquarie.   They include targeting the trade in services between the two countries rather than physical products. That means things like tourism and education, industries from which the United States benefits a lot more than China does.   Targeting tourism   More than half of the $39 billion US surplus with China in services comes from spending by Chinese citizens on travel to the United States and on attending American schools and colleges, according to investment bank Nomura.   China has a recent track record of using its tourists as an economic weapon.   Last year, it squeezed the economy of South Korea, which had angered the Chinese government with the deployment of a US missile defense system.   The measures included an unofficial order to Chinese travel agencies to halt tour groups to South Korea. That prompted Chinese tourism to the country to almost halve within a matter of months, hurting South Korea's hotels, duty free stores and other travel-related businesses.   US companies in China at risk   China could also take another page out of the playbook it used on South Korea by making life difficult for big US companies operating in its territory.   During the tensions with South Korea, Chinese officials closed down dozens of stores belonging to Lotte, a big South Korean conglomerate. The sales of South Korean auto brands Hyundai (HYMTF) and Kia also plunged in China as state-run media helped whip up anti-South Korean sentiment.   If Beijing's trade tit-for-tat with Washington keeps escalating, some experts think American companies doing business in China should buckle up for a rough ride. The fast growing Chinese economy is a massive market for top US brands such as Apple (AAPL) and Starbucks (SBUX).   "Much fewer Chinese companies have large operation in the United States," said Hu, the Macquarie analyst.     Aberdeen's Wolf said Chinese authorities could make life difficult for American companies operating on its turf by using selective enforcement of regulations, such as fire codes and food safety, as a means to shutter parts of their operations.   Such moves would have consequences for China's economy, though. Large numbers of Chinese citizens work in assembly plants for Apple products or in Starbucks stores across the country.   Some of the tariffs China already announced may also cause complications by pushing up prices.   "Imposing tariffs on soybeans looks problematic," said Julian Evans-Pritchard, a China economist at research firm Capital Economics, in a note to clients. American soybeans imports are cheaper than the Chinese equivalent because of more efficient processing. And other countries don't produce enough soybeans to meet Chinese demand either, he added.   China's 'cool-headed approach'   Experts say there are some steps that China could theoretically take to punish the United States that are too risky to consider.   China is the biggest foreign holder of US Treasury debt, owning about $1.17 trillion. A report by Bloomberg in January rattled markets by suggesting China was considering cutting back on the amount of US debt it buys, pointing to trade tensions as one of the reasons.   Investors worry that if China purchases fewer Treasuries, the US government would have to find alternative buyers. That could prompt a rise in the rate of interest it pays and increase the cost of serving America's vast national debt.   But it would hurt China too. A fire sale would also hit the value of China's Treasury holdings and may even end up destabilizing China's currency against the dollar.   "China's policy makers will take a cool-headed approach," Hu said. "It's unlikely for them to take extreme steps such as dumping US Treasuries."  US job growth slowed in March 
The US economy ended a tumultuous week with disappointing news. America added 103,000 jobs in March, slower than previous months and well below expectations.   Economists had predicted 185,000 jobs.   The unemployment rate stayed at 4.1%, the lowest since 2000. It has come down steadily from a peak of 10% in 2009.   Wages grew 2.7% in March compared with a year ago, in line with expectations. Wage growth is one of the few yardsticks in the job market not to pick up meaningfully in recent years.   Job gains for January and February were revised down by a total of 50,000 jobs.   The job figures come as concern grows about a trade war between the United States and China. President Trump said Thursday he is considering hitting China with tariffs on $100 billion more of its goods, for a total of $150 billion.     Responding to Trump's first round of proposed tariffs, Chinese officials earlier this week announced they would apply tariffs on $50 billion of US exports to China.   Separately, Trump has already imposed a 25% tariff on imported steel and a 10% tariff on imported aluminum. The tariffs apply to most nations, though Trump has granted exemptions to six nations and the European Union.   Economists say it's unlikely the trade concerns contributed to the slowdown in job growth. The Labor Department does its monthly surveys around the 12th day in every month. The United States didn't start to signal tariffs on China until late March.   The steel and aluminum tariffs were announced earlier in the month. But the companies that could be hurt by those, such as auto manufacturers, make up a small slice of total jobs.   "The impact of that is going to take months to be felt," said Robert Frick, chief economist at Navy Federal Credit Union. In the entire job market, "you're not going to lose 100,000 jobs because of people not adding [jobs] to steel and aluminum mills."   The job news still reflected a healthy economy overall. March was the 90th consecutive month of job gains, extending the longest streak on record. In general, job growth is expected to slow down as unemployment remains very low.   Jobs were not added across the board, as they were in previous months.   Manufacturing and health care industries each added 22,000 jobs in March. Business services gained 33,000. But retail businesses shed 4,000 jobs and construction companies lost 15,000 workers after going on a hiring spree in February.   Experts say the pullback in job growth could be blamed partly on cold weather in March and the much stronger job growth of 326,000 in February. It's not unusual for job growth to slow after a surge the month before.   "The US economy is still maintaining a healthy pace of expansion," said Sam Bullard, a senior economist at Wells Fargo.  Mnuchin says there's 'potential for a trade war' with China
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said there's a "potential for a trade war" with China, but expressed hope that the world's two largest economies can work out their differences. "There is a level of risk that we could get into a trade war," Mnuchin said in an interview with CNBC on Friday. "I'm cautiously optimistic we'll be able to work it out."   President Trump ratcheted up the rhetoric with China late Thursday evening, saying he was considering another wave of steep tariffs on the country's exports to the United States.   "In light of China's unfair retaliation, I have instructed the [United States Trade Representative] to consider whether $100 billion of additional tariffs would be appropriate," the president said in a statement.   The secretary tried to assure investors that Trump's willingness to fight for US interests would be a "long-term positive" for American companies. But those remarks failed to offer relief. The Dow was down 700 points late in the day.   "We want to sell more goods around the world," said Mnuchin, who repeatedly pointed to the disparity in the US-China trade relationship. "This is a terrific opportunity for US companies if they are treated fairly."   Earlier this week, the United States announced new tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods, claiming that China is stealing US intellectual property. China responded within hours by announcing $50 billion worth of tariffs on US goods. Those tariffs have yet to go into effect.   The moves follow US tariffs that were imposed earlier this year on Chinese steel and aluminum, which also prompted retaliatory measures from China.   In the CNBC interview, Mnuchin avoided directly answering whether the United States and China were in active negotiations to avert a trade war.   Instead, he said the Trump administration was still willing to negotiate with China, while sending a direct message it would defend US interests.   "We absolutely are willing to negotiate and not get into a trade war. On the other hand the president is perfectly willing to defend our interests," Mnuchin said. "Our strategy is very clear."   Questions over whether the world's two largest economies were engaged in discussions swirled on Friday after a spokesperson for China's Commerce Ministry told reporters that Beijing and Washington were not currently in talks.   That was backed up by Trump's chief economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, who said tariff negotiations with China had not started.   "They have not really begun yet," he told Bloomberg Television. "China's response to our complaints ... has been unsatisfactory."   Mnuchin declined to clarify the status of talks despite being asked repeatedly. "We're not going to do this and lay out out our negotiations in the public domain," Mnuchin said.  Why are US cranberries repeatedly threatened with tariffs?
When the European Union was trying earlier this year to avoid US tariffs, its leaders threatened to strike back by targeting American products including cranberries, orange juice, whiskey and tobacco. The same four products -- cranberries, orange juice, whiskey and tobacco -- were included on a list of 106 goods that China plans to hit with heavy new tariffs as part of its escalating trade dispute with the United States.   What's so special about cranberries and whiskey?   Experts say that the seemingly random array of US products in line for retaliation are actually carefully selected. The goal is to heap both economic and political pressure on politicians in Washington, and convince them to reverse course.   "Everybody looks at this very scientifically, and they have a lot of political science in this," said Ross Denton, a partner and trade specialist at the law firm Baker McKenzie.   He said the European Union pioneered the modern trade retaliation system, whereby officials identify products that have the most economic importance to a target country and then "cross reference that with where they think the most political pain will be caused."   The exercise yields a broad list of potential targets, which is narrowed by considering the economic impact that tariffs would have on consumers at home.   "They definitely do look at the impact on the consumer," said Denton. "They always try to make sure there's an alternative supply for [their] consumers."   Which leads us back to cranberries and whiskey.   Wisconsin -- a swing state that voted for President Donald Trump in 2016 -- produces more than half of the world's cranberries. It's also the home state of Paul Ryan, the top Republican in the US House of Representatives.   China imports $50 million worth of US cranberries a year -- or 15% of America's global exports -- according to the US Department of Agriculture. The European Union imports $130 million in cranberries, or 38% of US exports.   Beijing and Brussels both know that the public threat of retaliatory tariffs puts political pressure on Ryan, and other Republicans in Wisconsin. They may even lobby the Trump administration to reverse course.   Meanwhile, if Chinese and European consumers had to pay more for cranberries, or forgo them altogether, the pain wouldn't be so severe.   "Trading partners are trying to understand how to influence President Trump," said Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. "There really is no definitive tried-and-true track record that we think could 'work.' "     Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, another influential Republican, hails from Kentucky, where the sixth largest export is whiskey and 63% of voters went for Trump.   A tariff on whiskey could seriously hurt American producers. But consumers in China and the European Union have plenty of alternatives -- they can get premium whiskey from Ireland, Scotland or Japan without too much trouble.   Bown said the ultimate goal is to put pressure on multiple Republicans in the hopes that some of them will be able to influence Trump.   "President Trump is a very different kind of president. It's really unclear ... who he listens to for policy advice," he said.   After weeks of lobbying, the European Union was able to win a temporary exemption to tariffs the Trump administration placed on steel and aluminum products. That means cranberries and whiskey have been spared, for now.   But trade tensions with China show no sign of letting up.   Beijing announced its list of 106 American products that will be hit with 25% tariffs on Wednesday. On Thursday, Trump said he was considering new tariffs on another $100 billion worth of Chinese goods.   Mark Muro, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, estimates that about 2.1 million American jobs could be affected by the retaliatory tariffs that China has announced so far.  The case for big business in America
Big companies are under the microscope. A spate of mega mergers and the growing power of online giants like Amazon and Facebook have spurred calls for greater oversight of large corporations and stricter enforcement of antitrust rules.   But that couldn't be further from the truth for small businesses, which remain popular across the political divide. The federal government offers no shortage of incentives and programs for US mom-and-pops.   Robert Atkinson thinks that's all wrong. As the head of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a Washington, D.C.-based think tank focused on economic competitiveness and funded in part by tech giants like Google (GOOG) and IBM (IBM), he has long argued that big business is the driving engine of the American economy.   Along with New America Foundation co-founder Michael Lind, he's written a book from MIT Press called Big is Beautiful: Debunking the Myth of Small Business. It's an unabashed defense of corporate consolidation, on the grounds that big businesses create more jobs, pay better wages, and — by some metrics — comply better with environmental and workplace laws.   The only valuable small businesses, they argue, are those that eventually succeed in becoming large, especially if they do so with disruptive technology that makes the economy overall more efficient.   CNNMoney recently hopped on the phone with Atkinson to discuss his views.   CNNMoney: The idea of small business being good and big business being bad is not new. So why are you making this argument now?    Atkinson: I think what is somewhat new is, particularly since the Great Recession, is this increasing demonization of large companies.   We cite an article that Speaker Paul Ryan wrote [in 2009], and the title of the article was Down with Big Business. And you never would have seen that article from a Republican 15 years ago, but now [post-recession] you do.   It's even more worrisome on the left, where you have a really growing narrative that large corporations are not loyal, that they're only maximizing profits and hurting public welfare. So I saw all that, and said 'Boy oh boy, it seems to be leading us in the wrong direction.' Big and small are both good, why demonize one and say another is next to God?   CNNMoney: I get that the deification of small businesses is over the top, but I do think small businesses are valuable because they are rooted in communities, and the ownership and the capital stays local. You dismiss that idea as "sentiment." Why?   Atkinson: It depends on your perspective. In your world, you'd have a lot of small businesses. But in the rest of the US you have big companies, because all of the things you couldn't provide locally — cars and clothes — they'd be provided really, really well and cheaply [by big companies].   And then you've got all these nice, touchy feely, 'Hey Jim, how's business?' stores. If people want that, they can have it, but there is going to be a price for it in terms of lower productivity and lower wages.   CNNMoney: So, the problem here seems to be that we want cheap goods, so we'll shop at Walmart over our local retail store, which undermines healthy communities. Isn't that an argument for government fostering businesses that stay small rather than get very large?   Atkinson: There's two components of what you're saying here. One component is overall benefit. And I think we would be better off with fewer retailers, and the reason is because they're so much more productive. You talk about Home Depot and Lowe's, there's so much more choice for consumers [because their massive scale allows them to stock more products].   And I don't think we should start privileging the small business owner. When you look at the wages, for example, in retail, Walmart pays an average of 12.5% more than a mom-and-pop retailer, and that's true for most big retailers. So those workers would be better off working for large firms.   And the Main Street argument [that small businesses bolster communities] is true only for retail. Maybe there would be some small banks, but it wouldn't apply for things like insurance companies, wholesale trade, and manufacturing that aren't physically on a Main Street.   CNNMoney: One aspect of scale and prices is being able to command labor and suppliers at lower prices. How do you reckon with the idea that if you create a few employers in a labor market, that makes it difficult for workers to bargain for better wages?   Atkinson: If you really look at that study that finds monopsony power holding back wages, there are two major problems. One is that all the labor markets that they're looking at are really small. Small, rural towns where maybe you've got a big paper mill or pig processing facility. I don't doubt that there's less competition for workers, so they don't bid up wages. But to say that's a problem across the whole economy, it's just not true.   The second thing is, what's the solution to that? Break up the paper mill into two mills? There's a reason these companies are big. So I don't see any evidence that labor monopsony is a problem. It's a solution in search of a problem that the new anti-monopoly groups are pushing.   CNNMoney: So, one of the policy prescriptions of the book is that we should get rid of all preferences and subsidies for small businesses. Why?   Atkinson: What we desire in the book is really to have a level playing field. There's always going to be political economy factors that determine industry structure. What we argue in the book is that there should be less of that, favoring small companies for example through the tax code.   CNNMoney: Do you think big businesses are really harmed by that?   Atkinson: It's not that big businesses are harmed. We talk about in the book a really good study by an economist in Argentina who studied the grocery store industry there. And what he found is that Argentina, 10 years ago, was one of the only countries in the world where you had declining productivity in the grocery store industry, which is really hard to do. And the reason was that the exemptions and the benefits to the small mom-and-pop grocery stores were so huge that they got a lot more market share than they would have been if they were competing on a level playing field with the larger stores.   That's, to me, the bigger issue here.   It's not that the bigger companies are actively being harmed, it's that the small companies, because they're able to cut prices more than they would if they had the same obligations and the same taxes, fewer subsidized bank loans from the SBA etc., they would have marginally lower market share. And the end result of that would be slightly higher US productivity and wage growth.    Editor's note: This interview has been edited for clarity and length.  Your China-US trade fight questions, answered
The United States and China are locked in a battle over trade that seems to be escalating by the day. First, there were US tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Then the United States proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods, following an investigation into intellectual property theft. China said it would match the move with $50 billion in tariffs of its own, on items like aircraft and autos.   On Thursday, the situation intensified. President Donald Trump, angered at China's response, said he's considering an additional $100 billion in tariffs. The Chinese government said it doesn't want to fight a trade war, but isn't afraid to do so if necessary.   We asked CNN readers to share their questions about the dispute — what's happened, where it's headed and what it could mean for you.   Here are the answers to some initial questions (lightly edited for clarity). Have your own? You can submit it here, and it could be featured in a future story.   Who has the upper hand in a trade war — the US or China? Which country stands to lose more?   It all depends on how you cut it.   The United States has one big advantage: It ships $130 billion worth of goods to China, while China send $505 billion worth of goods to the US. That means the United States has a much longer list of products it could target, should it need to.   However, China could be in a stronger situation politically than the United States. Chinese President Xi Jinping has absolute power and tools at his disposal to limit public dissent. Trump, meanwhile, has to contend with midterm elections, powerful lobby groups and a free press. He could be more vulnerable to public pressure if prices rise and business suffers because of the tariffs.   "Both sides would end up badly bruised. Politically, [China] may have more stomach for it than we do," said Phil Levy, senior fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.   Which items should I stock up on before prices increase?   Don't race to the store just yet. The Trump administration has identified about 1,300 Chinese exports that could be targeted with 25% tariffs. Consumer electronics and various home appliances — including flat-screen TVs and dishwashers — could get more expensive if the government works off of this list, and companies decide to pass the cost of the new taxes on to customers.   But there's still time for businesses to lobby the government to remove certain items from the list, and additional products can still be tacked on.   I often buy inexpensive clothing for myself and my family at stores like Old Navy and Target. Will the cost of our clothing go up because of the tariffs?   Clothing and shoes were excluded from the Trump administration's initial list of the 1,300 Chinese exports.   But the retail industry is worried that apparel and footwear could still get hit. If Trump goes ahead with an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese exports, he won't have as many items to choose from. That could mean T-shirts and sneakers get thrown into the mix.   Will the trade fight affect my 401(k)?   It's already is.   In the past week, the stock market has been volatile due to trade war fears, and your 401(k) account could take short-term hit. But day-to-day moves are tolerable for most 401(k) holders in the long run.   Bigger problems can arise if costs for companies go up because of the tariffs. US tariffs on China include many parts that go into products, like bolts. Higher production costs would lead to thinner profits, which could spook investors and sink stocks. Broader concerns about corporate earnings and global growth could eventually trigger a stock selloff.   Of course, if all this talk is just bluster, and no or few tariffs are ultimately applied, this period of volatility will pass — and a typical, diversified 401(k) will be just fine.   Is the threat of Intellectual property theft real? If so, is $50 billion in tariffs an appropriate response?   It's widely accepted in the United States that China steals American companies' software, patents and other technology.   Chinese firms, backed with government support and sometimes funding, force US companies that want to operate in China to go into joint ventures. That forces the US companies to share their secrets with similar Chinese companies. Eventually, the Chinese firm takes the technology, pushes out the US company and profits from it.   Everybody on the US side basically agrees that this is a problem. But there's a debate about the right remedy.   The appropriate response is more about scope of the tariffs than the dollar value attached to them. If the US administration focused on punishing Chinese tech companies that had stolen US tech, that would be a very targeted, narrow approach.   The concern is that the US response will hit lots of Chinese industries, some of which may have nothing to do with intellectual property theft. The tariffs include some odd items like artificial teeth. It's hard to argue that China stole those patents from the United States. (Caveat — we are not experts in the market for artificial teeth.)   Will the tariffs create US jobs?   The tariffs will certainly protect some jobs.   For example, Trump has already imposed a 25% tariff on imported steel from most countries. US steel companies have indicated they will hire more workers as a result of the tariff. Something similar could play out with the tariffs on China. If certain imports from China drop, American companies that make these products may need to ramp up production, which would boost hiring.   However, it's an open question as to whether the tariffs — both on steel and on China — will save more jobs than they cost.   For instance, there are far more jobs in industries that use steel, like car companies, than companies that actually make steel. So the steel tariff is poised to hurt more jobs than it helps.   --Have questions about China, tariffs and a possible trade war? Ask them here.  US-China trade battle: Catch up here
The countries with the two biggest economies are threatening huge tariffs against one another as the world waits anxiously by to see if a trade war will materialize. The latest salvo came Thursday, when President Donald Trump called for imposing $100 billion in new tariffs on Chinese products.   But a potential trade war between the US and China has been brewing for almost a year.   April 2017 — Trump launches investigation into steel imports   President Trump, who has repeatedly vowed to bring manufacturing and jobs back to the United States, directs the Department of Commerce to investigate whether imports of foreign steel from China and other countries could be a threat to national security.   August 2017 — Another investigation tightens the screws on China   Trump launches a second government probe explicitly targeting China. He asks US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to look into unfair China's trade practices, with a particular focus on alleged Chinese theft of US intellectual property.   The government agency later estimates that intellectual property theft by China costs the US "between $225 billion and $600 billion" every year.   China's state-run media says the probe will "poison" the relationship between the two countries, while the Chinese government later slams the Trump administration's "unilateralism and protectionism."   A quiet few months   The Trump administration's threats against China, including the two probes, don't lead to tangible action over the rest of 2017 as Trump shows restraint amid a budding relationship with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping.   However, experts warn that 2018 could be a different story, calling a trade war between the two gargantuan economies increasingly likely.   January 2018 — First, solar panels and washing machines   The first major trade action against China comes at the beginning of the year, when the US announces a 30% tariff on imported solar panels -- most of which come from China -- and taxes on large residential washing machines starting at 20%.   China expresses "strong dissatisfaction" over the decision, adding that it "aggravates the global trade environment."   Other affected countries, including South Korea and Mexico, threaten varying degrees of retaliation to the tariffs.   February 2018 — Commerce Department proposes tariffs   The department, led by Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, proposed a range of tariffs in February 2018 including 24% on steel and 7.7% on aluminum.   While US steelmakers supported tariffs on their foreign counterparts, much of Corporate America warned that they could backfire and ignite a trade war.   China said it will "take necessary measures to defend our rights" if it is hit with tariffs.   March 9, 2018 -— Trump imposes tariffs on steel imports   Trump follows through on the tariffs recommended by his commerce department, taxing steel imports at 25% and imported aluminum at 10%.   US neighbors Canada and Mexico are exempted from the tariffs, with Trump saying other countries could potentially receive similar exemptions if they can "ensure that their products no longer threaten our security."   China, the world's biggest steel exporter, calls the tariffs "a serious attack" on international trade and says it will take "firm action" if Chinese businesses suffer losses as a result.   April 2, 2018 — China hits back    Beijing imposes tariffs on US imports worth around $3 billion, including a 15% duty on 120 American products including fruits, nuts, wine and steel pipes and a 25% tax on eight others, like recycled aluminum and pork.   The Chinese government says its tariffs are specifically in response to the US trade measures against steel and aluminum.   One of the notable casualties of the Chinese tariffs is a US company that's owned by China. Virginia-based Smithfield Foods, the world's biggest pork producer, will likely be hit hard. Shares in China's WH Group, which owns Smithfield, have plunged more than 11% since the tariffs were first proposed two weeks ago.   April 3, 2018 — US threatens to target another $50 billion in Chinese goods   Trump's next set of potential tariffs comes barely 24 hours after China's first retaliation. In response to the August 2017 investigation into Chinese intellectual property theft, the US Trade Representative proposes a 25% tax on close to 1,300 Chinese goods from the aerospace, machinery and medical industries.   April 4, 2018 — China warns of tariffs on another $50 billion in American goods   The Chinese government announces yet another set of retaliatory tariffs that nearly mirror the Trump administration's proposal a day earlier -- 25% on a range of products from the US, worth approximately $50 billion.   The 106 products on China's list include aircraft and automobiles as well as soybeans and chemicals.   Global markets have been hit hard by the Chinese announcement, as have the products on the list and the companies making them.   April 5, 2018 — Trump calls for targeting another $100 billion in Chinese goods   The stock market enjoys a day of gains as investors warm to the idea that most of the back-and-forth between Beijing and Washington is nothing but talk.   But Trump then makes a late-day statement calling for the broadest wave of new tariffs yet — $100 billion worth. He asks US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to look into which products his administration can target.   China warns it would retaliate to any additional tariffs, saying it has "already formulated very detailed countermeasures."   US stock markets are rattled. The Dow closes down 572 points, or 2.3%, on April 6 after falling as much as 767 points earlier in the day.   —CNN's Jackie Wattles contributed to this report.  China's Xi Jinping says tariffs on car imports will be cut this year
Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday said his government would "significantly lower" tariffs on vehicle imports this year as part of efforts to further open its giant economy to the world. The pledge addresses one of the gripes of US President Donald Trump, who has threatened to impose new tariffs on $150 billion of Chinese goods in a trade dispute between the world's two largest economies. Experts cautioned, though, that Xi's comments may not do much to resolve the underlying issues of the conflict, which has rocked markets in recent weeks.   During an eagerly awaited speech at a development conference on the tropical Chinese island of Hainan, Xi billed the planned cut in vehicle tariffs and a series of other measures as "a new phase of opening up." But many of the steps he outlined are ones Beijing has already proposed in some form.   For example, the Chinese government had promised in November to "gradually and properly" reduce tariffs on imported vehicles, though it didn't give a specific time frame for doing so.   "President Xi's remarks do not represent a dramatic departure from existing Chinese policy, but rather a reiteration of the same themes Xi has promoted throughout his tenure atop China's policy making system," said Chaoping Zhu, global market strategist at JP Morgan Asset Management.   Trump complained as recently as Monday about China's 25% tariff on foreign cars, pointing out that it's far higher than the 2.5% tariff the United States charges for imported cars. "Does that sound like free or fair trade," Trump tweeted. "No, it sounds like STUPID TRADE - going on for years!"   On Tuesday, he struck a different note, thanking Xi for his "kind words on tariffs and automobile barriers" and predicting that "we will make great progress together!"   Stock markets, which have plunged repeatedly in recent weeks over fears of a potential US-China trade war, responded positively to Xi's comments. Major indexes in Hong Kong and the United States gained more than 1.5% Tuesday.   It's still unclear, though, how much Xi's pledges will help defuse the trade tensions between the two sides. China has already proposed new tariffs on $50 billion of US goods and threatened to retaliate further.   "This speech did not represent a major shift in Chinese policy and it is likely the US-China trade dispute will require more negotiation," said JP Morgan's Zhu.   But other analysts said Xi's remarks could help lay the groundwork for a compromise.   "Clearly, he prefers a cool-headed approach toward the dispute," said Larry Hu, a China-focused economist at investment bank Macquarie Capital. Hu predicted that the current US-China clash over trade would eventually end with some kind of concessions from Beijing.   Xi didn't mention Trump or the United States by name in his speech. But he stressed the need for tackling problems through dialogue rather than confrontation, warning against adopting a "Cold War mentality." He also complained about limits other governments have put on trade with China.   "We hope developed countries will stop imposing restrictions on normal and reasonable trade of hi-tech products and relax export controls on such trade with China," he said.     The other measures he promised China would take include improving access to its financial sector and easing restrictions as soon as possible on foreign ownership of companies operating in China's auto, aerospace and shipbuilding industries.   He also pledged to strengthen the protection of intellectual property inside China, which has been a focal point of criticism from the Trump administration, and increase China's imports from other countries by lowering some tariffs.   "China does not seek a trade surplus," he said.   Trump has often slammed China's huge surplus in the trade of goods with the United States, which reached $375 billion last year, according to US data.   Chinese state media disputed the idea that the planned changes outlined by Xi were a response to the current trade dispute with the United States.   "These measures are based on our consistent policy and stance, our own development and our own pace," read a commentary published online by the People's Daily, the official newspaper of the ruling Communist Party. It said that "linking China's strategic choice to the current China-US trade frictions" was a "baseless interpretation."   -- Matt Rivers, Tim Schwarz and Steven Jiang contributed to this report.  The deficit report card is in. Trillion dollars is now the new normal
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office on Monday released its 10-year budget and economic outlook, and the news isn't good. The report shows a notable deterioration in the country's debt outlook, thanks largely to the trillions in tax cuts passed by Republicans and a pricey two-year budget deal and spending bill recently passed by both parties.   The CBO now projects trillion-dollar deficits will start in 2020, two years ahead of what it projected just 10 months ago, although it will come close ($981 billion) by next year. By 2028, the agency expects the deficit to top $1.5 trillion.   "The legislation has significantly reduced revenues and increased outlays anticipated under current law," the CBO report notes.   Trillion-dollar deficits, of course, were a hallmark of the financial crisis a decade ago — and its aftermath, the Great Recession. Economic activity fell off a cliff and interest rates dropped to historic lows.   The big difference, though, is that the US economy today is fairly strong, and interest rates are on the rise, further pushing up borrowing costs.   While dollar amounts are telling, the magnitude of deficits is even better measured as a share of the economy. Starting this year, annual deficits will exceed the 3.5% of GDP recorded last year. They will range from 4% to north of 5% over the next decade. The peak comes in 2022, then moderates to just below 5% after 2025, when the recently passed tax cuts for individuals expire.   Thanks to the anticipated rise in interest rates coupled with growing debt, the CBO now projects that annual interest costs alone will hit $915 billion by 2028. That's "roughly triple what they are this year in nominal terms and roughly double when measured as a percentage of GDP," the CBO said.   Interest costs are also on track to top what the federal government will spend on non-defense discretionary spending, which accounts for spending on everything other than defense and so-called entitlements, such as Medicare and Social Security.   If the tax cuts set to expire after 2025 are continued — something Republican lawmakers have said they want — and if scheduled spending cuts from current levels don't occur, then the deficit and debt picture deteriorates further.   The result? Total debt held by the public — a reflection of cumulative deficits over the years — would reach about 105% of GDP by the end of 2028. That level has only been exceeded once in the country's history — immediately after World War II.   As it is, debt is on track to hit nearly 100% by 2028.   The concern is that these unusually high deficits are projected to continue into subsequent decades, absent changes to spending and revenue.   "Our forecast beyond 2028 shows nothing but rising deficits," CBO director Keith Hall noted in a briefing with reporters. "Nobody knows what's too much debt, what will cause a fiscal crisis."   But the more debt you have, the more likely such a crisis becomes, he added. And the longer you wait to tackle the growth in debt, "the more draconian the measures you must take."   The Trump administration, meanwhile, has contended that the new tax law in combination with the rest of the White House economic agenda will not only generate enough new revenue to pay for the tax cuts, but raise an additional $300 billion over a decade.   The CBO report shows that the tax cuts and spending increases will gin up GDP, especially in the next two years. The tax cuts alone could create 1.1 million jobs on average over the next decade. But the growth effects are not enough to offset the full cost of the tax cuts, by CBO's estimates. The report does not include anything about the effects of the tariffs that President Trump wants to impose on goods from other countries.   The view from the Hill    In response to the CBO report, Republican Senator James Lankford of Oklahoma echoed a common GOP refrain that higher revenue from economic growth is needed to combat debt, but that the focus must be on curbing spending.   "We must slow the growth of entitlement spending, increase revenues with a growing economy, and make responsible spending cuts," Lankford said.   Several Democrats, meanwhile, used the report to rip the GOP's tax overhaul.   "In their craven haste to give corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent massive tax breaks, Republicans saddled our children and grandchildren with trillions of dollars of debt," said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi.   Republicans have been scrambling to show voters that they're working to reduce deficits, even though some of the most vocal, self-proclaimed deficit hawks in the party voted for both the tax cuts and the higher spending caps.   The House GOP this week will vote on a balanced budget amendment. And President Trump, despite just signing a $1.3 trillion spending bill passed by Congress, reportedly wants to cancel select portions of the funding. But doing so could require Congressional approval, which might be hard to wrangle.   -- CNN's Deirdre Walsh and Ted Barrett contributed to this report.  New Medicare cards are in the mail. Just beware of scams
Attention senior citizens: A new Medicare card is coming your way, but be careful not to fall victim to any scams. In an effort to help protect the elderly from identity theft, the federal government started mailing new cards that come with a new 11-digit identification number instead of an enrollee's Social Security number. The cards will be sent automatically to Medicare's roughly 59 million participants over the next year. Seniors should be sure their addresses are up to date with the Social Security Administration.   Congress required the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to remove Social Security numbers from Medicare cards by April 2019. The new identifier is a mix of numbers and letters. Once seniors receive the new paper card, they should destroy their old plastic one and give the new card to their medical providers.   The roughly 21.5 million seniors who are enrolled in Medicare Advantage should continue using the cards provided by their insurance carriers, which don't contain Social Security numbers. However, their providers may still want a copy of their new Medicare cards.   Though the effort is designed to help minimize fraud, it has sparked a series of scams. Medicare wants enrollees to know that they don't have to do anything to receive their cards (as long as their address is correct), and there is no activation process or fee. Also, Medicare will never initiate calls and ask to verify information over the phone.   "Anyone who is calling you for personal or financial information, hang up the phone," said Amy Nofziger, a fraud expert with the AARP, adding that those who do get contacted should report the scam to the federal government at 1-800-MEDICARE.   Yet another con involves beneficiaries being told they have a refund on their old Medicare cards and need to provide their bank information to process the return of the funds.   Most seniors don't know much about the new cards, which makes them vulnerable to scam artists, Nofziger said. Three-quarters of respondents to a new AARP survey said they knew nothing or very little about the redesign, and more than 60% think they could face a fee.  Trump administration offers two more ways to escape Obamacare's penalty
Americans now have two additional ways to get out of paying Obamacare's individual mandate penalty. The Trump administration announced Monday that those who live in counties with no insurer or with only one choice will be able to apply for a hardship exemption from the mandate, which requires nearly all Americans to get health insurance or pay a penalty.   Every county currently has at least one insurer on its exchange, but about 26% of Obamacare enrollees -- living in slightly more than half of counties -- have only one option, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.   Also, pro-life Americans who can only buy plans that cover abortion can receive an exemption.   The broadening of the exemptions won't matter after this year since Congress eliminated the individual mandate penalty starting in 2019. Until now, hardship exemptions were typically granted to those who were homeless, facing eviction, had filed for bankruptcy or were in other difficult situations. People could also apply for income-related exemptions if the only plans in their areas were too costly or they earned too little to file a tax return.   The Trump administration also took another step Monday to put its stamp on the Affordable Care Act by releasing new rules for 2019.   Since Congress failed to repeal and replace the health reform law, administration officials can only adjust Obamacare's regulations. Like its prior moves, the administration says the 2019 guidance focuses on lowering costs and increasing choices for consumers, states and insurers.  We're giving States tools and flexibility to promote more stable markets and help them attract & retain issuers. This will provide Americans with more #healthcare choices at an affordable price.https://t.co/o9rKkjSNBq  Obamacare supporters, however, argue that the changes will only further undermine the law and hurt the millions who depend on it.   "This rule reduces protections for people with pre-existing conditions, increases the cost of health coverage, and makes it harder for consumers to sign up for coverage," said Sam Berger, senior adviser at the Center for American Progress, a left-leaning group.   One of the more significant changes provides states with more flexibility in determining the essential health benefits that insurers must offer, starting in 2020. While carriers must still provide the 10 broad categories of essential health benefits mandated by Obamacare, states could give them more leeway in selecting which specific services to cover.   Consumer advocates, however, worry that this will allow insurers to trim services that sicker enrollees need, leaving them with fewer benefits and higher out-of-pocket costs. For instance, states could allow insurers to limit the number of physical therapy visits or tighten the variety of drugs covered under the plan.   Ultimately, it could lead to less generous coverage, said Elizabeth Carpenter, a senior vice president at Avalere Health, a consulting firm.   Also, consumers next year will face out-of-pocket spending caps of $7,900 for individuals and $15,800 for families, an increase of 7%. That's the biggest jump since 2014, according to Avalere.   The rule also eliminates the standardized "simple choice" plans that the Obama administration had introduced in 2017 to make it easier for consumers to shop. These plans got preferential display on healthcare.gov. Trump officials said that insurers complained the better billing on the federal exchange limited enrollment in other plans and removed the incentive to offer a greater variety of coverage options.   Some enrollees who receive premium subsidies may also have to provide more documentation to prove their eligibility. Exchanges will have to implement "stronger checks" to verify consumers' earnings if other data sources, such as the Internal Revenue Service, show the enrollees' income is actually below the poverty line, rendering them ineligible. Also, those who fail to file taxes and reconcile any past overpayment of subsidies will lose their assistance, even if their exchange doesn't send them a notice first.   The rule also allows states to make it easier for insurers to spend less of the premiums they collect on policyholders and put more toward profits and administrative costs. And the administration raised the default threshold that trigger state reviews of insurers' proposed rate hikes to 15%, up from 10%.   The administration is also making more changes to the Navigator program, which helps enrollees sign up for coverage on the exchanges and for Medicaid. The rule removes the requirement that each exchange must have at least two navigators and that one must be a community nonprofit group. Also, navigators will no longer have to maintain a physical presence in the area.   The administration cut funding for the Navigator program by 41% during the 2018 open enrollment season.   The new rule is the latest effort by the administration to undermine the Affordable Care Act. Earlier this year, it proposed rules that would allow insurers to sell short-term insurance plans, which last just under a year but don't have to comply with Obamacare's regulations, and to make it easier for small businesses to band together to offer coverage that doesn't adhere to all of the health reform law's mandates. Both of these options could have lower premiums, but also cover fewer benefits.  Trump promises to 'make it up' to farmers hit by China tariffs
President Trump acknowledged Monday that American farmers may be hurt by Chinese tariffs. But he insisted that farmers would be better off over the long term. He also indicated that any pain farmers feel won't affect his political fortunes.   Farmers "are great patriots," Trump said at the White House. "They understand that they're doing this for the country. And we'll make it up to them. And, in the end, they're going to be much stronger than they are right now."   A moment later, he said of China: "It's not nice when they hit the farmers, specifically, because they think that hits me."   China has promised to put a tariff on American soybeans if Trump goes through with his threatened tariffs on up to $150 billion in Chinese goods.   Iowa, Nebraska, Indiana and Missouri, all of which voted for Trump in 2016, are major producers of soy, and China is America's biggest export market for the crop. China has already imposed tariffs on US fruits, nuts, pork and wine.   The United States is not expected to apply its tariffs at least until June, according US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, White House chief economic adviser Larry Kudlow and other senior officials.   Trump said Monday that farmers would benefit from the results of US negotiations with China and a revised NAFTA, the trade deal between the US, Canada and Mexico. Trump also directed the US Agriculture Department on Monday to look into other ways to protect US farmers from China's tariffs.   But even that suggestion illustrates how farmers' dependence on free trade doesn't square with Trump's views.   For years, most American farmers have praised NAFTA as a big win for US agriculture because it opened up lowered trade barriers in Mexico, which has become one of the top buyers of US pork, grain and soy. About 14 million American jobs across industries depend on trade with Canada and Mexico, according to the US Chamber of Commerce, a pro-trade lobbying group.   Herb Karst, head of Karag farms in Billings, Montana, was disappointed with Trump's comments Monday.   "First reaction from me was 'wow,'" Karst said by phone Monday afternoon. The grain farmer, who is also a representative for Farmers for Free Trade, an advocacy group, also said Trump's "logic is so far out there."   Karst added: "This latest trade action [by China], if it is on soybeans, if it does come about, it will have a devastating impact on US soy farmers, and by extension all US farmers."  How American cars are really sold in China
Chinese President Xi Jinping's pledge to lower tariffs on US cars sounds like great news for American workers and companies. In some respects, it is.   US auto exports to China have already been surging, despite the current 25% tariff. In 2017, the United States sent $10.5 billion of cars — new and used — to China, up from $1.1 billion in 2008, according to the US Census Bureau. Last year's exports were up from $8.8 billion in 2016.   With a lower tariff, car companies in the United States would presumably be able to export more cars to China, the world's biggest consumer market. That would benefit American workers.   But a few realities make Xi's promise a little less exciting.   President Donald Trump often mentions that the United States has only a 2.5% tariff on Chinese cars imports. His argument is that the playing field isn't level. On a tariff basis, that's true. In reality, the tariffs haven't stopped automakers in the United States from shipping cars to China.   The United States imported $1.6 billion in new and used cars made in China last year, roughly six times less than US auto industry exports to China, according to the Census Bureau.   Most of the cars sold in China by iconic US automakers are made in China   America's most iconic automakers, such as Ford and General Motors, already make cars in China for Chinese customers in joint-venture factories. That means Ford and GM partner with Chinese firms to make and sell cars.   China is GM's biggest market and has been for six years straight, according to the company. Both Ford and GM manufacture the majority of their cars sold to Chinese customers in China. The 25% tariff doesn't apply to cars made in China.   From January to October last year, Ford sold 939,000 cars in China, but only 2% of those were imported, according to the company's most recent report on China.   GM and Ford do export certain models from the United States to China, such as the Ford F150 Raptor. But those models make up a small share of overall sales in China.   The bottom line: It's more cost effective to make cars in a region where they will be sold. That's one reason why Ford and GM build cars in China, rather than ship them from America. By the way, Japanese automakers like Toyota and Honda follow the same principle: They make most of the cars they sell to US customers in North America.   German automakers with US factories actually stand to gain the most   The US factories for BMW and Mercedes could be the big winners if the tariff is pulled. But they too make cars in China.   BMW is the largest auto exporter in the United States by value with its plant in Spartanburg, South Carolina, according to the automaker. It's unclear how many cars made in Spartanburg go to China. BMW didn't respond to a request for that information.   Mercedes has a plant in Vance, Alabama. A Mercedes spokesperson said the majority of the SUVs it produces in Alabama are exported around the world, but declined to provide China-specific data.   As major auto exporters with US operations, BMW and Mercedes would benefit more from China lowering its tariff than the iconic American automakers. But even the German car companies make the majority of their cars sold to Chinese customers in China.   Mercedes sold 170,000 cars in China between January and March, and more than two-thirds of which were cars made in China, according to a press release last week.   BMW sold 517,000 cars in China in 2016. Its plant in Shenyang, China, produced 305,000 autos that same year, according to the company's most recent annual report. It can't be assumed that BMW's cars made in America fill in the gap between those two figures. The company also exports certain models from Germany to China.   It's still unclear how much would be accomplished by removing the tariff. BMW and Mercedes sell to wealthy clientele who can generally stomach the higher price tag a 25% tariff can cause.   China often says it will cooperate on trade. And then doesn't   Chinese officials said last fall they would lower auto tariffs, but they provided no time line. Xi didn't provide any timing either on Tuesday.   Xi's appeasing comments also stand in contrast to rhetoric from China's Foreign Ministry, which on Monday said trade talks with the United States would be impossible "under current circumstances." Between Monday and Tuesday, neither nation changed its proposed trade tariffs.   Xi has been China's president since 2013 and this year he was effectively granted the presidency for life. So far, he has defied calls to meaningfully change China's trade behavior. It remains to be seen if his words will translate to action.  How did China end up posing as the defender of global trade?
The United States was the architect of the rules that govern global trade -- but these days, it's China that's positioning itself as the defender of the system. As President Donald Trump has gone on the offensive against China in an attempt to push it to abandon trade practices many companies and governments say are unfair, Beijing has sought to portray the US moves as an attack on the international trading system as a whole.   "It's been clear for all to see that the China-US trade dispute is a conflict between unilateralism and multilateralism as well as between free trade and protectionism," the People's Daily, the official newspaper of China's ruling Communist Party, said in a commentary published online Tuesday.   "Many countries can't stand the arrogance and going-it-alone attitude of the United States on this issue."   Experts says it's a bizarre state of affairs, given China's own track record on trade.   "China is seeking to cast itself as the defender of a rules-based system, but its own past behavior raises doubts about just how committed China is to following the spirit, if not letter, of the law," said Mark Wu, an international trade professor at Harvard Law School.   Beijing's efforts to stake its claim to the role were again on display Tuesday when President Xi Jinping delivered a speech vaunting the benefits of free trade and globalization for China and the world. He said countries must work together to promote greater liberalization and to support "the multilateral trading system."   China 'gaming the system'   China has good reason to defend the status quo. As Xi outlined in his speech, entry into the World Trade Organization in 2001 helped spur China's spectacular economic rise that lifted millions of people out of poverty.   Trump sees China's gain as America's loss.   Trump said last week that the WTO gives "tremendous perks" to China and is "unfair" to the United States, the latest in a series of attacks on the body that administers the rules of international trade and seeks to resolve disputes.   Experts say that as China has become more integrated into the global trading system, it has gone along with many -- but not all -- of the requirements.   Beijing "still regularly flouts some of its commitments and utilizes the gaps in the system to officially stay inside the lines. China has learned to game the system about as well as anyone," said Scott Kennedy, an expert on the Chinese economy at the Center for Strategic & International Studies in Washington.   "However, as China has grown and its gaming of the system shifts larger and larger costs to others, the world has become less patient with this state of affairs," he added.     US 'undermining the system'   Many of Trump's criticisms of China tally with those of other governments and complaints from international companies. But rather than build a broad coalition Trump decided to go after China alone without following WTO procedures, abandoning the legal high ground.   "Though China's been extensively violating its WTO obligations to the United States for 16 years, Trump managed to grant China legal equivalence in a matter of days by imposing US national security tariffs on Chinese steel and aluminum outside WTO rules, and by threatening to impose retaliatory tariffs outside the WTO retaliation process in response to some of China's violations," said Matt Gold, an international trade expert at Fordham University School of Law.   Those moves "have undermined the entire system," Gold added.   Trump has also damaged his free-trade credentials by pulling out of a major Pacific trade agreement and threatening to terminate existing deals such as NAFTA, which links the United States with Canada and Mexico.   "Trump's bombastic and chaotic approach has made it possible for China to garner sympathy," Kennedy said.     WTO 'not equipped' to deal with China   The Trump administration has also added to strains on the WTO by putting new appointments to the trade body's top court on hold.   "The judges are overwhelmed," said Chin Leng Lim, a law professor specializing in international trade at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.   "That's what it means to attack the system, you choose vigilante justice and you attack the court," he said. "Beijing doesn't want that, China wants to keep the house that America once built."   Some experts say the current global trading system isn't up to the job anymore.   "The problem lies in the fact that existing WTO rules are not equipped to deal with the unique economic structure that is modern China, with its opaque linkages between the state, the Communist Party, state-owned enterprises, and private firms," said Wu.   But revamping global trade rules requires WTO members to reach a new deal, something they have been unable to do for the past 16 years.   Other countries 'don't want to rock the boat'   China's growing economic clout has also helped it to sideline criticism of its own trade practices.   "Others suffer from China's limits on imports and investment, but the country's size and rapid growth still create so many opportunities, and China's state is entirely willing to favor those who are most compliant," Kennedy said. "As a result, most foreign governments and companies don't want to rock the boat."   But experts say Beijing still has a long way to go to make its claims to defend free trade more credible.   "China still lags behind other major trading powers when it comes to lowering tariffs and liberalizing investment," Wu said. "Until its actions are more consistent with its words, it will be hard for others to envision China as supplanting the United States as a champion for an open, rules-based trade regime."  Chinese investment in the United States dropped 36% last year
Chinese investment in the United States plummeted in 2017. And that was before a trade fight erupted between the two countries. For years, Chinese entities have pumped a significant amount of money into the US, deepening ties between the world's two largest economies.   But such investment fell from $46.5 billion in 2016 to $29.7 billion in 2017, according to a report released Tuesday by the Rhodium Group and the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations. That's a drop of more than one third, though 2017 was still the second highest year on record.   The sharp decline set in well before President Donald Trump launched a series of aggressive trade actions against China, including slapping tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, and calling for up to $150 billion in additional tariffs on Chinese goods as punishment for intellectual property theft.   So what accounted for the dip?   China has tightened restrictions on outbound investment because it's worried that its biggest conglomerates could be overextending themselves.   "The Chinese, about a year and a half ago, started to impose capital controls, which stopped people from doing a lot of [US] acquisitions," said Stephen Orlins, president of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations.   In 2017, Beijing said it would limit overseas investments by Chinese companies in industries like real estate, hotels, entertainment and sports clubs.   There's also a tougher regulatory environment in the United States.   The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS, is an inter-agency panel chaired by the Treasury Department. It vets certain deals that could give a foreign investor control of a US business for national security risks.   That panel has been increasingly aggressive under Trump. Experts say CFIUS has been examining more deals, while heavily scrutinizing tie-ups that could give foreign companies access to sensitive technologies or personal data on Americans.   More than $8 billion in deals were abandoned in 2017 because the parties couldn't address concerns raised by CFIUS, according to estimates from the Rhodium Group and the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations.   The 2018 outlook for Chinese investment in the US doesn't look much better.   "The commercial appetite of Chinese firms for US investment expansion is stronger than ever, but regulatory hurdles are unlikely to fade in Beijing and will almost surely increase in the US, casting uncertainty over the near-term outlook," the report said.   And the fact that China and the United States are now locked in an escalating fight over trade likely won't help.   In theory, the tariffs could encourage some foreign manufacturers to build facilities in the United States to avoid paying the extra duties.   But trade penalties often spook foreign companies, making the business environment seem risky.   "The tension makes the Chinese nervous about doing business in the United States," Orlins said.  Bankers worry Dodd-Frank rollback bill could be in peril
Bankers are getting anxious as lawmakers wrestle with a bill that would cut regulations. For thousands of community banks and regional lenders, including State Street, BB&T and SunTrust, the bill would loosen rules imposed by Congress after the 2008 financial crisis. Banks argue that those rules have hurt their ability to lend money and stimulate the economy.   The bill, crafted by Republican Senator Mike Crapo of Idaho, passed the Senate last month with some Democratic support. But it could be in jeopardy in the House, where an influential Republican wants to make changes.   "We're just so close," said Cynthia Blankenship, vice chairman and corporate president at Bank of the West based in Grapevine, Texas. "This is really relief that we need desperately. It would be such a disappointment if the House couldn't get this across the finish line."   House vs. Senate   In the House, Texas Republican Jeb Hensarling, chairman of the Financial Services Committee, wants to put his own stamp on the Senate's version.   He wants to add a number of measures that have already passed the House with bipartisan support, such as easing disclosure requirements on mortgage loans and letting more companies test the waters before going public.   "We're not rubber-stamping this Senate bill," Hensarling told reporters last month after the bill cleared the Senate. "We're sending a message to the Senate that we stand ready to negotiate."   Any changes in the House would send the bill back to the Senate. And moderate Senate Democrats, whose support was critical in advancing the banking bill, have sent their own message in recent weeks: They won't vote on this bill twice.   "They did the best they could to come up with a strong bipartisan bill," said Paul Merski, executive vice president for congressional relations at the Independent Community Bankers of America. "If you change it now, it's unclear you will get the same result."   Democrats who supported the bill drew backlash from more progressive members of the party, who argued that a regulatory rollback would make the financial system more vulnerable to another crisis.   Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who opposed the bill, wrote on Twitter after it passed that "bankers are popping champagne."   America's banks hauled in $164.8 billion in profit last year, according to the FDIC. It's tough to argue that they didn't have enough money to lend with: They had so much, in fact, that they returned a ton of it to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.   What the bill would do   Crapo's bill would raise the threshold at which banks are considered "too big to fail." That trigger, now set at $50 billion in assets, would rise to $250 billion. That means more than two dozen midsize US banks would be shielded from some Federal Reserve oversight.   They would no longer have to hold as much capital to cover losses on their balance sheets. They would not be required to have plans in place to be safely dismantled if they failed. And they would have to take the Fed's bank health test only periodically, not once a year.   Community banks with less than $10 billion in assets would no longer have to comply with the so-called Volcker Rule. The rule bars financial institutions from making risky bets with money that is insured by taxpayers.   "There's no political issue here," said Blankenship, the Bank of the West executive. "Both sides see the value of community banks and realize they make most of the business loans. It's not a partisan issue."   The political impasse has left little room for formal negotiation between the two chambers, leaving the bill's future murky. But Crapo's bill comes back into focus this week as Congress returns to Capitol Hill after spring break.   "We're still in the same cloudy space prior to recess trying to figure out how this bill moves forward," said one lobbyist with a trade group that represents US banks. "There's only two choices: They have a formal negotiation and work something out or the bill dies."   A spokeswoman for Crapo, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, declined to comment on the status of the bill. A spokeswoman for Hensarling did not respond to a request for comment.   Pressure from bankers   Bankers and their lobbyists aren't giving up.   Thousands of executives from community banks across the country descended on Washington for their annual meeting this week. They hope to make a last-minute appeal to House lawmakers to greenlight the bill and get it to President Trump for his signature.   Bankers, who strongly support Hensarling, point out that his support laid the groundwork for the Senate bill.   In West Virginia last week, Trump assured community bankers the bill "should be done fairly quickly."   "We made it a lot easier for you to lend now to great people that a short period of time ago you were not able to lend [to] because of rules, regulations, and you were lending to people that you didn't even want to lend [to]," Trump said.   This week members of the Independent Community Bankers of America are expected to meet with House Speaker Paul Ryan, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Hensarling and others on the sidelines of their annual conference.   Two weeks later, another 1,300 or so bankers who are members of the American Bankers Association will also be flying in from around the country. They hope to cajole lawmakers into advancing the bill before Congress turns its attention to other things.   "Our bankers are here with a very simple message: Take the deal," Merski said. "It would be a shame to squander this opportunity."   Fed proposal   Some bigger banks could have a respite on the way soon.   On Tuesday, the Fed took its first step during the Trump era to simplify stress tests for some larger banks.   The proposal could modestly reduce how much capital some banks would have to hold, as measured by the Fed's yearly checkup, to make sure they can still lend money during a crisis.   Those revisions would not apply to the biggest of the big banks, which pose the biggest risk to the financial system. The proposal is open to public comment for 60 days.   —CNN's Matt Egan contributed to this report.  Why it's better to search for a job while you already have one
Hate your job? You might want to think twice before you just quit and search for another. Even if you can afford to take a few months off, you're likely to be a lot worse off down the road.   One reason why: research conducted during the Great Recession, while millions of Americans were out of work for 27 weeks or more, revealed hiring bias against the unemployed.   But it's not just your chances of getting an offer that decline once you don't have a job. It's also your wages.   A recent study by the New York Federal Reserve finds that already-employed workers get job offers worth 23% more on average than those without jobs, even when controlling for experience and the type of employer — which, over time, can add up to a lot of money.   The authors identify a few reasons this could be the case. It's possible that a candidate's skills could depreciate while they're out of work, and that current employees have better access to professional networks that could land them their next job.   But more fundamentally, a steady income gives employed workers leverage and the ability to bide their time, which unemployed workers usually lack.   "Offers received while employed are more likely to involve some form of bargaining between the job seeker and the prospective employer, suggesting a stronger bargaining position on the part of someone who already has a job and is considering a job switch," the authors wrote.   With the expansion of online job search platforms, like LinkedIn, recruiters have even more access to those who are already employed, allowing them to bypass unemployed job seekers entirely if they want to.   As unemployment stays at historic lows, that allows two things to happen: Wages are bid up for the most qualified workers, which draws those on the sidelines back into the workforce -- increasing the pool of available labor.   However, wages will only move higher if workers have the ability to switch jobs freely, which a growing number of employers have sought to prevent in recent years.   They have been doing so by forcing workers to sign "non-compete" clauses, which prevent them from going to work for a rival company. Such contracts now cover one out of five workers, according to a study published last year by economists at the Universities of Michigan and Maryland. Although some states — like California — don't enforce them.   Another way to keep workers from hopping from one job to another in search of higher wages is to agree with other employers not to hire each others' workers through so-called "no-poaching agreements."   According to an analysis by Princeton economist Alan Krueger, those agreements are particularly common in franchised industries, such as fast food and home cleaning: 53.3% of franchise agreements at major chains contained one in 2016, up from 35.6% in 1996.   According to Sheila Maddali, law and organizing director at the nonprofit advocacy group Restaurant Opportunities Centers United, that's particularly harmful at full-service chain restaurants, where a worker's income can depend heavily on tips, which can vary widely store to store.   "Some of these tipped workers want to change locations based on what's a busier restaurant," Maddali says. Even if a worker can't get hired at another restaurant down the road, employers can keep them around without paying better.   Fortunately for workers, the Department of Justice doesn't think such practices are legal.   In announcing a settlement last week in a case against two large rail equipment suppliers that had agreed not to compete for each others' workers, the agency's antitrust division said it was undertaking a "broader investigation" of no-poaching agreements. The department said the agreements "eliminate competition in the same irredeemable way as agreements to fix product prices or allocate customers, which have traditionally been criminally investigated and prosecuted as hardcore cartel conduct."   Should the Justice Department deter companies from using no-poaching agreements, currently-employed workers could look for other jobs in the same industry without fear.  Saudi Arabia and France's Total to build 'giant' chemicals plant
Saudi Arabia has scored a big new investment from France's Total. The French oil group has signed a preliminary deal with Saudi Aramco to build what the companies described in a statement as a "giant" petrochemical complex in the kingdom.   The project will require investment of about $5 billion and will be integrated with an oil refinery that is already operated as a joint venture between Aramco and Total (TOT). Engineering and design work is due to begin in the third quarter of 2018.   Signed during a visit to Paris by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the deal will boost Aramco as it prepare for its initial public offering and help the kingdom as it diversifies away from oil.   "This project will enable us to strengthen our ties with Saudi Aramco, with whom we successfully operate our biggest and most efficient refinery in the world," Total CEO Patrick Pouyanné said in the statement.   He added that it would create 8,000 new jobs and bring new technology to the kingdom.   Bin Salman is on a global tour to attract foreign investment as he spearheads the Vision 2030 project to overhaul the Saudi economy.  Trump signs executive order pushing work requirements for the poor
President Donald Trump is now setting his sights on overhauling the nation's safety net programs. Trump signed an executive order Monday directing federal agencies to promote employment for those on public assistance.   The president called for enforcing work requirements that are already in the law and reviewing all waivers and exemptions to such mandates. Also, the executive order asked agencies to consider adding work requirements to government aid programs that lack them.   "The federal government should do everything within its authority to empower individuals by providing opportunities for work, including by investing in federal programs that are effective at moving people into the workforce and out of poverty," the order read.   The agencies have 90 days to submit a list of recommended policy and regulatory changes.   The move is the latest step in the administration's effort to require low-income Americans to work for their federal benefits. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services earlier this year began allowing states to mandate that certain Medicaid enrollees must work for the first time in the program's history, while the Department of Housing and Urban Development is looking into the issue for those in subsidized housing.   The Department of Agriculture also wants to strengthen the work requirements in the food stamp program. Currently, adults without minor children can only receive benefits for three months out of every 36-month period unless they are working or participating in training programs 20 hours a week. However, states can waive that requirement for areas where unemployment is at least 10% or there is an insufficient number of jobs, as defined by the Department of Labor.   Several states, particularly those with Republican leaders, have also been adding work mandates. Kentucky, Indiana and Arkansas have already received approval to require certain Medicaid recipients to participate in community engagement programs, including working, volunteering or job training, while several other states have applications pending before CMS. West Virginia and Wisconsin recently tightened the work requirement provisions in their food stamp programs.   The president is ramping up these efforts after Congress opted to punt on entitlement reform with the midterm elections looming in the fall.   The order outlines nine "Principles of Economic Mobility," which are in line with longstanding Republican ideals. They include improving employment outcomes and economic independence, promoting marriage as a way of escaping poverty, reserving benefits for those truly in need and empowering the private sector to find solutions to poverty. The order directs agencies to provide more flexibility to the states, which administer many of these safety net programs.   Millions of Americans flocked to the nation's government assistance programs in the wake of the Great Recession and the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act. More than 74 million Americans are on Medicaid, while more than 41 million people receive food stamps, formally known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP. (Enrollment in food stamps has drifted down from a peak of more than 47 million in 2013.)   The administration, along with conservative policy experts, argue that this is the perfect time to enforce and expand work requirements because unemployment is near record lows and employers are looking to hire. They are setting their sights on the able-bodied, working-age adults -- particularly childless men -- who have joined the assistance programs in recent years.   The executive order should send a strong signal to federal agencies that they need to prioritize adding or strengthening work requirements, said Robert Doar, who used to oversee New York City's public assistance programs. Getting people to work -- even if they still need some assistance -- is the first step to helping them gain economic independence, he said.   "People can't rise out of poverty if they are only receiving SNAP and Medicaid," said Doar, now a fellow at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. "These programs were meant to supplement earnings, not replace them."   Consumer advocates, however, argue that work requirements will lead to millions of people losing crucial assistance. Putting in place such mandates doesn't take into account barriers to employment, such as medical conditions, child care and transportation.   "So-called 'work requirements' are premised on a set of myths about poverty," said Rebecca Vallas, vice president of the Poverty to Prosperity Program at the left-leaning Center for American Progress.   "First, that 'the poor' are some stagnant group of people who 'just don't want to work.' Second, that anyone who wants a well-paying job can snap her fingers to make one appear. And third, that having a job is all it takes to not be poor," she said.   Many low-income Americans who can work already do, advocates say.   In households that receive SNAP and have at least one non-disabled adult, 58% are employed and 82% worked in the year prior to or after enrollment, according to the Center for American Progress.   Among Medicaid recipients, 60% of able-bodied, working-age adults have jobs, while nearly 80% live in families with at least one member in the labor force, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation analysis. Most of those who don't work cite illness, disability or family obligations as the reason.   Instead of mandating employment, the president could do other things to help Americans gain economic independence, Vallas said.   "If Trump were serious about helping the 'forgotten man and woman' he pledged to fight for during his campaign, he'd be addressing the real problems trapping Americans in poverty -- like the poverty-level minimum wage that's remained stuck at $7.25 for nearly a decade," she said.  Why trillion-dollar budget deficits may be on a fast track to $2 trillion
The recent Republican tax cuts and the bipartisan agreement to raise federal spending have done a number on already high budget deficits. But the outlook could be even worse than we thought. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office now projects that annual US budget deficits will cross the trillion-dollar mark in 2020, two years sooner than what the agency was projecting just 10 months ago.   A trillion-dollar deficit is especially striking given that there is no recession or financial crisis driving the country to spend so much more than what it takes in.   But it's not nearly as eye-popping as $2.1 trillion.   Yet that's where budget deficits are headed as soon as 2028 if Congress decides to extend the tax cuts and higher spending levels past their respective expiration dates. Many of the tax cuts are set to expire after 2025, while higher spending levels expire after two years.   Two days after CBO's latest projections came out, House Speaker Paul Ryan announced his retirement after serving in Congress for two decades. During that time, Ryan was chairman of both the House tax and budget committees and was the most high-profile deficit hawk in the Republican Party. Yet the annual deficit steadily rose as a share of the economy during his time as Speaker.   With or without Ryan, however, it's not crazy to think Congress could extend the costly tax and spending policies that would lead to $2 trillion deficits. Lawmakers in recent years have been loathe to let tax cuts expire. And cutting spending is not their strong suit.   The 2001 and 2003 Bush tax cuts, for instance, were extended during the Obama administration and then largely made permanent when Congress faced the so-called fiscal cliff in 2012.   In 2011, Congress struck a much-criticized deal to force lawmakers to reduce deficits under threat of automatic cuts if spending caps were violated. Those caps, however, have been overridden a few times, most recently this winter, when lawmakers voted to raise limits on defense and nondefense spending.   And since 2013, instead of actively agreeing to increase the legal US borrowing limit to pay the country's obligations, Congress opted instead to just suspend the debt limit six different times.   If lawmakers take the route of least resistance, the CBO estimates that in ten years, the debt — which reflects the accumulation of deficits over the years — could reach 105% as a share of the economy, higher than at any time except right after World War II. And it would be much higher than the 96% of GDP that the agency estimates if the tax cuts and spending increases expire as scheduled.   For comparison's sake, this year the country's debt is expected to hit 78%.   Then again, there is a chance lawmakers might act to moderate deficits before they cross the $2 trillion mark.   Maya MacGuineas, who runs the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, can see Congress extending some but not all of the expiring tax cuts and taking other measures to curb deficits before 2028. In that case, "I would bet our debt will be around 101% of GDP by the end of 10 years," MacGuineas said.   Even then, however, budget deficits north of $2 trillion might not be far off, she noted.   "I think they will certainly cross it but it will be a few years longer than a decade."  How a US-China trade war could hurt (and help) others
The United States and China have spent weeks threatening each other with higher tariffs on goods worth tens of billions of dollars, measures that could trigger a full-blown trade war if enacted. Apart from the damage that would cause to trade between the world's two biggest economies, the fallout from such a conflict could create other losers, as well as winners.   Several countries in Asia sell goods to China that are used to make products exported to the United States.   "Any escalation in trade tensions that leads to a significant fall in US imports from China would have a sizable impact, not just on China, but on other countries such as Taiwan and Malaysia which export a lot of intermediate goods to China," economists at Capital Economics wrote in a research note.   Japan, which relies on the United States for 19% of its exports and on China for another 19%, would face a relatively low direct impact from the tariffs, according to Marcel Thieliant, senior Japan economist at Capital Economics. But the country's economy could be significantly impacted by stock market volatility and fluctuations in its currency, the yen, if trade tensions escalate, he added.   South Korea, which counts both China and the United States among its largest trading partners, would be one of the biggest casualties if a trade war breaks out.   Losers in Asia   "Asian economies... are likely to be significantly impacted in a full-blown trade war," Chua Han Teng, head of Asia country risk at BMI Research, told CNN. "These countries are export-oriented... and are key suppliers of components to China."   BMI Research said that big financial centers such as Hong Kong and Singapore, which rely greatly on the Chinese manufacturing sector, would also suffer if trade tensions escalate.   The effects could also be felt further West.   Benoit Coeure, a board member of the European Central Bank, was quoted as saying last week that fears of a trade war between the United States and China are driving up borrowing costs and pushing down stock prices.   Companies with global operations, such as German carmaker BMW (BMWYY), have also warned that a US-China trade war would ripple around the globe.   "Barrier-free access to markets is... a key factor not only for our business model, but also for growth, welfare and employment throughout the global economy," BMW said in a statement. "A further escalation of the trade conflict between the US and China would be harmful for all stakeholders," it added.   Gaurav Saroliya, director of global macro strategy for Oxford Economics, said in a note that the real risk stems from further escalation, particularly if the United States targets Chinese consumer electronics.   There could be "a considerable loss of growth across the board if the ongoing trade skirmishes spiral out of control," he added.   Winners elsewhere   Not everyone will lose, however. Some regions could benefit from a drop in exports of US goods, such as soybeans. China was the largest buyer of soybeans from the United States last year, according to the Department of Agriculture.   "Given that China's agricultural import needs are generally inelastic, there would likely be a redistribution in trade flow, which could see China substitute US soybeans for those from Latin America," said Han Teng of BMI Research.   China's proposed tariffs on fossil fuel imports from the United States could also see the Middle East gaining a greater share of Chinese trade.   China already gets most of its polyethylene imports from the region, according to Goldman Sachs, and could further increase its reliance on Middle Eastern countries if it decides to tax American supplies. The United States currently accounts for less than 5% of China's imports of the commonly used plastic, the bank's analysts said, but that number is expected to triple over the next two years if the tariffs aren't imposed.   While otherwise vulnerable, South Korea could also potentially benefit from a greater Chinese need for polyethylene, Goldman Sachs added, with Korean companies like Lotte Chemical and LG Chem among potential suppliers.   -- CNN's Charles Capel contributed to this report  IMF chief: Global trade system 'in danger of being torn apart'
Escalating tensions are putting the global trading system at risk, the head of the International Monetary Fund warned Wednesday. Calling on countries to steer clear of protectionism, IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde said in a speech that the "system of open trade based on rules and shared responsibility is now in danger of being torn apart."   Her comments in Hong Kong come as the United States and China are locked in a tense trade dispute in which they have threatened to slap tariffs on tens of billions of dollars of each other's exports.   Lagarde didn't pin the blame for the current crisis on any particular countries, saying that the splintering of the global trading systems would be "an inexcusable, collective policy failure."   She urged countries to "reduce trade barriers and resolve disagreements without using exceptional measures."   That appeared to be a veiled reference to recent moves by the Trump administration to impose tariffs outside of the World Trade Organization process. Experts have warned that the US moves are already undermining the system.   But Lagarde's speech also reflected some of the United States' grievances about China.   "Each country has a responsibility to improve the trade system by looking at its own practices and by committing to a level playing field where all countries will be following the rules," she said. "This includes ... better protection of intellectual property [and] reducing the distortions of policies that favor state enterprises."   Trump has cited alleged Chinese intellectual property theft as a reason for proposed tariffs on $50 billion on Chinese goods. China has rejected the US allegations but also promised to step up its efforts to strengthen intellectual property protection.     Lagarde warned that measures like tariffs "hurt everyone, especially poorer consumers."   "Not only do they lead to more expensive products and more limited choices, but they also prevent trade from playing its essential role of boosting productivity and spreading new technologies," she said.   If the United States wants to reduce its huge trade deficit with China and other countries -- as Trump has repeatedly said he intends to -- Lagarde said it would be better off using "policies that affect the economy as a whole."   She suggested the US government should, for example, try to reduce its massive budget deficit by gradually reining in spending and increasing the amount of revenue its brings in (which governments usually do by raising taxes).   The United States is currently moving in the opposite direction, though.   Following the recent tax cuts and an agreement to raise federal spending, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office now projects that annual US budget deficits will cross the trillion-dollar mark in 2020, two years sooner than previously forecast.  The Federal Reserve plans to hike interest rates even faster
Interest rates are on their way up. Buoyed by a strengthening economy and increased confidence that the Federal Reserve will reach its inflation target in the near future, central bank policymakers suggested the path of future rate hikes could be "slightly steeper" over the next few years than previously thought, according to minutes of their March meeting released on Wednesday.   "Members agreed that the strengthening in the economic outlook in recent months increased the likelihood that a gradual upward trajectory of the federal funds rate would be appropriate," according to the minutes.   In March, the Fed lifted the federal funds rate to a range of 1.5% to 1.75%. That was an increase of a quarter of a percentage point. The Fed's target rate helps determine rates for mortgages, credit cards and other borrowing.   According to the minutes, there was some debate by policymakers on whether to delay raising rates to a later meeting to send a strong signal to investors that monetary policy decisions would be based on incoming economic data. But they ultimately agreed to press ahead.   It was the sixth increase since December 2015, when the Fed started tightening monetary policy for the first time after the financial crisis. Rates are still extremely low by historical standards.   Fed officials were split on whether last month's policy meeting was the appropriate time to announce a fourth rate hike in 2018. The Fed has signaled it would raise rates three times this year.   At the March meeting, the Fed hinted it would favor a more aggressive pace to keep the economy humming in the coming years. It also shifted its plans to raise interest rates for next year, calling for three more rate hikes instead of two.   Nearly half of FOMC members, at the time, said they believed that would be necessary to raise rates faster if the economy keeps performing as well as they expect.   A hastened pace of interest rate hikes prompted some policymakers to suggest the possibility of revising the Federal Open Market Committee's statement "at some point" to acknowledge a monetary policy shift from "accommodative" to "neutral or restraining," according to the minutes.   Powell told reporters at his first press conference that economic forecasts can change, and the Fed could be "a little less gradual or a little more gradual" when it comes to future interest rate decisions.   Minutes of the March meeting, the first chaired by Jerome Powell, also indicated that policymakers were uncertain about the future of the economy because of the impact of tax cuts and the possibility a tit-for-tat trade war.   A "strong majority" of Fed officials worry that a trade war would harm the US economy, while most shrugged off the economic impact of steel and aluminum tariffs alone, according to the minutes.   Fed officials were deliberating their March rate hike decision just as the Trump administration was considering slapping tariffs on Chinese imports.   Most policymakers also weren't sure how much -- and when -- the tax cuts would boost the economy. It's rare for lawmakers to stimulate the economy with tax cuts when the economy is already at full steam. Overstimulating an already healthy economy could force the Fed to speed up interest-rate hikes.   During their March meeting, the Fed raised its economic growth forecast to 2.7%, up from 2.5% in December. That was before Republican tax cuts were enacted and lawmakers made a deal for $300 billion in additional government spending.  America's part-time worker problem is permanent, San Francisco Fed says
The US job market is one of the bright spots in the global economy. America has millions of new jobs, falling unemployment and even some nascent signs of growing paychecks. One problem persists: A historically high number of Americans have part-time jobs, but want full-time positions.   Economists long argued that the trend, known as "involuntary part-time," was temporary. But it now appears to be a permanent problem, according to a blog post published Wednesday by the San Francisco Federal Reserve.   "In the absence of public policies aimed directly at altering work schedules, it looks like higher rates of involuntary part-time work are here to stay," San Francisco Fed economist Rob Valletta wrote.   With the current unemployment rate of 4.1%, the number of involuntary part-timers should be much lower. But it's 40% higher now than it was when unemployment was last that low in 2000. That group does not include people who work part-time because they want to.   Nearly nine years after the Great Recession ended, there are still more involuntary part-time workers than there were before the crisis began, according to the Labor Department.   Some experts outside the Fed call it "hidden unemployment" because the extra hours workers want go unpaid. Workers describe the jobs as "dead ends" with high demands from employers and low pay.   A surge of job growth in recent years at restaurants, bars, retail stores and freelance gigs has pushed more Americans into part-time work, according to Valletta.   There were 5 million involuntary part-timers in March. In 2006, despite a higher unemployment rate than today, there were a million fewer part-timers.   During the last economic expansion -- between late 2001 and 2007 -- there were about 4.4 million part-timers seeking full-time work, on average. Since the Great Recession ended, the average has been 7.2 million.   The number of part-timers has fallen significantly since it peaked at 9.2 million in 2010. But it has stubbornly hung around 5 million since last summer, and it's increased three of the last four months.   The part-time jobs problem holds grave consequences for those who can't get out of it, research shows.   Involuntary part-time workers are five times more likely to live in poverty than full-time workers with similar jobs. They are far less likely to receive benefits like paid time off or health care. On average, they earn 19% less per hour than full-time workers in the same position, according to a 2017 analysis by Rebecca Glauber, a sociology professor at the University of New Hampshire.   It also exacerbates racial inequality. Glauber found that involuntary part-time employment had fallen 30% for white, Hispanic and Asian-American workers since the Great Recession. Yet it had dropped less than 20% for black workers.  Elizabeth Warren to CFPB's Mulvaney: 'You are hurting real people'
Senator Elizabeth Warren blasted Mick Mulvaney, the head of the government's consumer watchdog agency, for not standing up for millions of Americans who get cheated by financial predators. "You are hurting real people to score cheap political points," Warren told Mulvaney on Thursday at a Senate Banking Committee hearing.   The showdown had been building for months. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, conceived the agency and is its staunchest defender in Congress. Mulvaney, who was appointed interim director by President Trump, argued as a congressman that it should be abolished.   The CFPB was created in 2010 by Congress and former President Barack Obama to safeguard Americans from financial predators. The agency rolled out mortgage and payday-lender rules and cracked down on bad behavior by penalizing Citigroup, Wells Fargo and many other lenders.   Under Mulvaney, the CFPB has reversed course. It has delayed the payday-loan rules, dropped lawsuits against payday lenders and stripped enforcement of fair-lending protections.   "You've taken obvious joy in talking about how the agency will help banks a lot more than it will help consumers and how upset it must make me," Warren told Mulvaney.   "This isn't about me," she said. "This is about active duty military. It's about first responders and students and seniors and families ... and millions of other people who need someone on their side when consumers get cheated."   Mulvaney has repeatedly tried to dispel that criticism, arguing he is following the letter of the law and is simply seeking better oversight of the agency by Congress.   Earlier this month, Mulvaney asked lawmakers to make a number of significant changes to the agency, including giving Congress control over the consumer bureau's budget and calling for an independent inspector general to oversee the bureau.   "I know it [CFPB] was set up to be independent and that's fine," he said at the hearing. "I don't think that equates with being free of oversight, free of accountability, free of transparency."  House GOP bill would lock the poor out of food stamps if they don't work
Many food stamp recipients could be locked out of the program for up to three years if they fail to work or enroll in job training, under a bill proposed by House Republicans seeking to overhaul the government benefit. The provision, one of several contained in the controversial House farm bill that lawmakers unveiled Thursday, would ratchet up the pressure on low-income Americans to find jobs. Work requirements and lockouts are becoming a popular tool among Republican lawmakers and state officials as they seek to move more people off of public assistance and into the labor force.   "Benefits are critically important and serve a vital role in the safety net aimed at catching people if they should fall into poverty," House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway co-wrote in an op-ed published Thursday in USA Today. "But equally important is a focus on helping these same people climb back out of poverty."   The food stamp reforms are the latest step in the GOP's efforts to add or increase work requirements in various government benefit programs. President Donald Trump signed an executive order Tuesday directing federal agencies to promote employment for those on public assistance.   Earlier this year, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services began allowing states to mandate that certain Medicaid enrollees must work for the first time in the program's history, while the Department of Housing and Urban Development is looking into the issue for those in subsidized housing. The Department of Agriculture also wants to strengthen the work requirements in the food stamp program, officially known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP.   The House farm bill calls for expanding the number of people subject to work requirements. Currently, able-bodied adults ages 18 to 49 who don't have minor children must work or enroll in a training program for 20 hours a week to receive benefits for more than three months every three years. About 3.5 million of the roughly 41 million people enrolled in SNAP are subject to this provision.   The legislation would require those in their 50s to work and would extend the mandate to parents with school-age children, starting in fiscal 2021. (Most working-age adults who are not disabled or pregnant must currently register for work, accept a job if offered or maintain their current employment if they are working.)   This could double the number of people subject to work requirements, as well as reduce enrollment by roughly 1 million over a decade, according to Republican staff.   It would also mandate recipients to work or participate in a training program for a minimum of 25 hours a week starting in fiscal 2026. And, the legislation would invest $1 billion annually in SNAP Employment & Training programs and guarantee every enrollee a slot.   Those who fail to meet the criteria could be locked out for a year the first time they fail to meet the requirements and for three years for subsequent violations, unless they come into compliance.   The bill will also make it harder for some low-income folks to become eligible for food stamps by qualifying for other government assistance programs, a practice in use in more than 40 states. And it tightens the criteria for states to request waivers from the mandate.   Republicans argue that this is the perfect time to enforce and expand work requirements because unemployment is near record lows and employers are looking to hire.   But consumer advocates say that such mandates will lead to millions of people losing crucial assistance. Instead, they say, the Trump administration and Congressional Republicans should look to raise the minimum wage and strengthen work support programs, such as subsidized child care and transportation assistance.   Also, many low-income Americans already hold jobs. In households that receive SNAP and have at least one non-disabled adult, 58% are employed and 82% worked in the year prior to or after enrollment, according to the left-leaning Center for American Progress.   "Taking away people's food is not going to help them find work," said Melissa Boteach, senior vice president of the center's Poverty to Prosperity Program.  London's property market is in a coma
London's housing market has ground to a halt. After years of blockbuster growth, home prices have reversed course and are expected to drop further over the next year. The number of sales has dropped, and more homeowners are pulling properties off the market.   The dour outlook comes courtesy of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), which warned in a report on Thursday that weakness in London had caused its UK house price indicator to hit a five-year low.   A number of factors have hobbled London's market.   The government has in recent years hiked taxes on property purchases, making it more expensive to buy luxury housing, second homes and investment properties. Doing so has scared off some wealthy investors and caused prices to slump in central London.   Britain's decision to leave the European Union has also hurt the market, with potential buyers putting their plans on hold because of the economic uncertainty.   One property professional surveyed by RICS said that Brexit and the tax changes had "killed the liquidity of the London market."   The Bank of England is also expected to keep slowly raising interest rates as the economy grinds forward, making mortgages even less affordable for Londoners.   The average house price in London is £486,000 ($690,000), according to the UK Land Registry.   That's too high for many first-time buyers, whose finances have been hit by high inflation and small salary rises. But sellers would rather pull properties off the market than accept lower bids.   "Buyers and sellers are currently locked in a stand-off," said Hansen Lu of Capital Economics.   RICS' chief economist Simon Rubinsohn said that the slowdown in London "has the potential to impact the wider economy, contributing to a softer trend in household spending."   He said the dynamic could ultimately impact the Bank of England's thinking about future interest rate rises.   Still, analysts don't expect house prices to collapse in London. Inflation has moderated in recent months, employment remains strong and the British economy is growing.   Lu said this should be considered "good news" for the stagnant market.  The middle class is growing again -- but slowly 
After losing ground for years, the US middle class is slowly clawing its way back. In 38 states, a larger share of households were "middle class" in 2016 than in 2013, according to a new Stateline analysis. This group, which is defined as earning between two-thirds and twice the state's size-adjusted median household income, had contracted in every state except Wyoming between 2000 and 2013.   However, there's still a lot of catching up to do: In 2016, there were 30 states where at least half of households were middle class, up from 28 in 2013. But that's still down from 43 states in 2000.   "I think the main thing you are seeing is that the middle class is still struggling in most places," said David Madland, a senior fellow at the left-leaning Center for American Progress and author of Hollowed Out: Why the Economy Doesn't Work without a Strong Middle Class.   A booming economy and a tight labor market may have raised wages for those on the bottom rung of the economic ladder, Madland said, but middle-class wages have not gotten a significant boost.   "Tight labor markets help, but in today's economy they aren't enough," Madland said. "Workers don't have enough bargaining power to get much of a raise."   Chris Edwards, an economist at the conservative Cato Institute, said the middle class has continued to do well this year because of rising wages and tax cuts for some workers, but at the expense of higher government spending that will come back to haunt it.   "My message to the middle class is, 'Enjoy it while you can,' because Washington is building up a pile of debt that's going to eventually land on the middle class by pushing taxes up," Edwards said.   Only Alaska and Hawaii had a larger share of middle-class households in 2016 than in 2000 — and in both cases, the increase was just two-tenths of a percentage point, to about 55%. Alaska and Hawaii are the two states with the lowest concentration of wealth in the top 1%, according to a 2015 study by economist Mark Frank at Sam Houston State University in Texas.   The recent increase in the share of middle-class households is likely due to the rapid pace of economic recovery in recent years, Frank said.   "After the Great Recession, things popped back pretty fast," Frank said.   Most states did see an expanding middle class between 2013 and 2016, though in all but three — Montana, Connecticut and Georgia — the increase was smaller than 2 percentage points. In Montana, the share of middle-class households grew by nearly 3 percentage points, from 51% in 2013 to 54% in 2016. In 2000, 55% of Montana households were middle class.   The share of middle-class households in Connecticut and Georgia grew by 2 percentage points between 2013 and 2016, to 51 percent in Connecticut and 49 percent in Georgia. In both states, the share of middle-class households declined by more than 4 points between 2000 and 2013.   Idaho was the only state where the erosion of the middle class accelerated between 2013 and 2016. After declining by less than 1 percentage point between 2000 and 2013, Idaho's share of middle-class households dropped by more than 2 percentage points between 2013 and 2016, to 53 percent.   Even if the size of the middle class in a particular state grows, the households in that category may be less prosperous if their incomes are stagnant or declining.   In most states, however, middle-class households benefited from rising incomes between 2013 and 2016: In 35 states where inflation-adjusted median income declined between 2000 and 2013, it rose between 2013 and 2016.   Wyoming was the only state to see an income decline, of about 2%, between 2013 and 2016.   The Pew Charitable Trusts funds both the Pew Research Center and Stateline.  WTO urges politicians to 'show restraint' on trade
The World Trade Organization has issued a warning to global leaders: Trade wars will inflict major damage on the economy. Roberto Azevêdo, the group's director-general, said Thursday that strong trade growth could be "quickly undermined if governments resort to restrictive trade policies, especially in a tit-for-tat process that could lead to an unmanageable escalation."   The stern message from the WTO, which administers the rules of international trade and seeks to resolve disputes, was likely aimed at the United States and China, which are engaged in a public brawl over trade tariffs.   US President Donald Trump has threatened to impose new tariffs on $150 billion of Chinese goods. Beijing has pledged to retaliate.   "I urge governments to show restraint and settle their differences through dialogue and serious engagement," Azevêdo said in the group's annual report. "A cycle of retaliation is the last thing the world economy needs."     Global trade in goods by volume grew by 4.7% last year, according to the WTO. That's the fastest pace of growth in six years. In dollar terms, trade grew by 10.7% to $17.2 trillion.   Trade in goods is expected to keep growing in the years ahead, though the pace is expected to moderate to 4.4% in 2018 and 4% in 2019.   The good times aren't guaranteed to last.   The WTO said that faster interest rate hikes by central banks would have a negative effect on trade. The report also said that Beijing's efforts to boost consumption in China could continue to depress trade growth.   "China's rebalancing might dampen imports slightly in the short-run but it should produce stronger, sustainable growth over the long term, which would support more trade," the report said.  In Camden, this group helps low-income kids launch careers 
Camden, New Jersey, has offered Brandon Rodriguez some harsh life lessons and some surprising opportunities. Rodriguez's parents divorced when he was five, leaving his mother Sharmaine to raise three kids on her own in one of America's most distressed and dangerous cities. To pay the bills, "she worked all day" and held down multiple jobs, he said.   Before they moved into a bigger place two years ago, the family lived in a cramped two-bedroom apartment in a rough neighborhood. Rodriguez kept his belongings in plastic bins stacked in the hallway and slept on the couch or the floor.   "We had bullet holes in our front door," he said. "When you live in an environment like that, you tend to just ignore it. Only then can you work to pursue something better."   For Rodriguez, 20, that's exactly what he did.   Last summer, he began a three-month training program with Hopeworks 'N Camden, a not-for-profit organization that teaches Camden's young adults tech and other career skills to help them attain a college degree, land a job or build their own business.   Rodriquez had graduated from Camden County Technical School with a major in graphic design in 2016. He wanted to make a career out it and was looking for an internship as a starting point. That's when he found Hopeworks' program online.   The training program taught him skills in coding, web design and development, as well as interviewing and other "real life" job skills. After he completed the program, he was offered a six-month internship in Hopeworks' Web Design unit.     Many of Hopeworks' graduates are offered internships paying $10 to $15 an hour at one of its three businesses: Web Design, Geographic Information Systems or Salesforce. The organization also helps to place other participants in paid internships with local businesses.   The experience sometimes leads to permanent jobs — and often a better future.   Rodriguez, who just finished his internship last week, has already launched his own freelance design firm BICRV and has worked with a handful of clients. His first was a local business called Peace of Cake bakery. He's designing the bakery's web site, logo, menus and marketing materials while he also pursues an undergrad degree in graphic design at The University of The Arts in Philadelphia.   The two sides to Camden   More than 2,200 young people from Camden and nearby areas have gone through Hopeworks' program since it first began 18 years ago.   "In the last year, over 85% of them have successfully earned paid work with Hopeworks," said Dan Rhoton, Hopeworks' executive director. He said participants who have found other full-time jobs are earning an average of more than $35,000 a year.   "There are two sides to Camden. The first is what you see in the news. We have a lot of crime, poverty and unemployment," said Rhoton. The city has close to 10% unemployment, more than double the national unemployment rate of 4.1%. "The other side to Camden, the reality we like to focus on, is the more than 45% of the population under the age of 25."   The majority of Hopeworks' trainees are Latino and African-American and between the ages of 17 and 25, he said.   "These are young people whose personal lives, education experiences and housing situations are filled with upheaval and uncertainty," said Rhoton. "Most left high school without graduating because they see no hope for their future. It's a common story in Camden."   Last year, Hopeworks introduced a two-hour weekly entrepreneurship class run by angel investor Brad Aronson, who invites business owners to speak to the class and takes students on field trips to tech and networking events.   Aronson said Hopeworks' trainees are uniquely primed to be entrepreneurs. "Entrepreneurs need to be able to overcome hardship and adversity. Many of our young people have been doing that from a young age, preparing them for the rollercoaster ride of entrepreneurship," he said.   Caloua Lowe, 19, moved to Camden County when she was in elementary school. "My parents were teenagers when they had me, so it was a struggle," she said.   Problems at home caused Lowe to have trouble at school. "School was my thing, but then my grades slipped," she said.    Lowe discovered Hopeworks through Twitter in 2016. "I liked that it offered a learning program through which you could earn money," she said, noting the $750 stipend participants receive.   Lowe enrolled in Hopeworks last fall, right around the time her father went to jail for a parole violation. She honed her graphic design skills and "also learned about personal accountability and how to network because you never know who you might meet who could help you in the future," she said.   She has since launched a freelance business, Zhane Designs, designing book covers, business cards, logos and brochures for her clients. This fall, she'll begin at Camden County College to major in web design and development.   "A lot of youth in Camden don't have direction. They don't know anyone who cares about their future. This is why a program like Hopeworks is essential to our community," she said.  The US may have missed its chance to rejoin the TPP
President Donald Trump wants to take another look at the huge Pacific trade deal that he yanked the United States out of last year -- but getting the world's largest economy back in would be tough. The 11 countries Trump left in the lurch when he withdrew from the Trans-Pacific Partnership just days after taking office have forged ahead with a new agreement without the United States.   Trump asked his top trade and economic advisers on Thursday to investigate "whether or not a better deal could be negotiated," the White House said.   During his election campaign, Trump slammed the TPP as a "disaster." Pulling out of it fulfilled a key campaign promise. So why the apparent change of heart?    The China factor   Experts say trade tension with China is a big factor. Spearheaded by the Obama administration, the original TPP deal was seen as a way of creating a Pacific counterweight to China's rising economic clout. Beijing is not in the TPP, but some supporters of the pact said it could encourage China to change its behavior on trade.   "I think this is part of the administration's growing awareness that bilateral pressure on China is unlikely to get the job done on its own," said Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who specializes in trade and economics. "The TPP was a source of leverage against China, but President Trump simply didn't listen to those who were making that case before he pulled the plug."   Trump said in January that he would consider joining the new TPP if the terms were improved. Since then, relations with China have deteriorated -- the Trump administration imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum, and has threatened to slap new taxes on $150 billion of Chinese goods. China has retaliated with tariffs on a range of US products, such as fruit and pork, and threats to hit even bigger exports, including soybeans.   That's left many American farmers upset that they're missing out on the export opportunities that countries such as Canada, Mexico and Australia get from the TPP, and fearful about the damage China could do to their business.     'The US position is much weaker now'   Despite pressure on Trump from Republican lawmakers from farming states, such as Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, the United States won't find it easy to get back into the TPP.   Trump on Thursday reiterated the stance he took in January that he would only join the pact if it were "substantially better" than the one Obama negotiated. Experts say that will be tough now that the other countries have moved on.   "The Trump administration would have had a strong hand if it had insisted on renegotiating TPP when the president took office in January 2017," Alden said. "The US position is much weaker now."   A number of provisions covering issues like intellectual property that the US government successfully pushed into the original deal were suspended in the new TPP signed last month. Bringing them back would require the agreement of all 11 signatories.   The other TPP countries might be willing to do that in exchange for greater access to the US market, said Deborah Elms, executive director of the Asian Trade Centre in Singapore. But if the Trump administration starts asking for further changes, that would make it harder to swallow.   "The original members just spent five long and painful years negotiating the deal only to be 'left at the altar' by the Americans," Elms wrote in a blog post. "They then spent another long year working through modifications to the text to make it palatable for everyone. No one is likely to be in any mood to consider new demands by the United States."   No appetite 'for substantial renegotiation'    Some TPP countries responded cautiously to Trump's rethink.   "We would like to welcome the president's remarks if it means that he recognizes the meaning and effect of the TPP," said Yoshihide Suga, the Japanese government's chief cabinet secretary. He warned that "it is extremely difficult to take out one part and renegotiate," a point that was underscored by New Zealand.    "If the United States genuinely wished to reenter, that would trigger another process of engagement and negotiation," New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said. "It's not simply a matter of slotting into an existing deal."   Australian Trade Minister Steven Ciobo said he would welcome renewed US interest in the TPP but the priority right now is bringing into effect the deal the 11 countries signed last month.   "There isn't an appetite for any substantial renegotiation in any material way of the TPP," he said.   One approach the Trump administration could take is to agree to the existing pact and then try to strike side deals with individual countries in specific areas, such as trade in automobiles with Japan.   "But then you'd have to get Japan to agree to it," Elms said, predicting that the 11 current members would not be "wildly enthusiastic" about the idea of bilateral negotiations with the Trump administration.   Even if Trump does decide to push through a return to the TPP, he might struggle to get it approved by Congress.   It would be hard to renegotiate a deal in time to get lawmakers to vote on it before midterm elections in November.   And "if the Democrats take the House in November, the likelihood that they will pass a Trump-endorsed TPP is virtually nil," Alden said. "The opportunity has almost certainly passed."   -- CNN's Vasco Cotovio and Yoko Wakatsuki contributed to this report.  China's economy hit the ground running in 2018
China's economy made a strong start to 2018, shrugging off escalating trade tensions with the United States. The world's second largest economy grew 6.8% in the first quarter of the year from the same period a year earlier, according to government data published Tuesday.   Fears of a trade war between the United States and China have risen sharply since the start of the year, with both governments announcing plans to slap tariffs on major imports. But the threats don't appear to be affecting economic activity so far. China's growth rate for the first three months of this year is the same as it reported for the second half of 2017.   China's government said last month that it's aiming for economic growth of around 6.5% for the full year.   Such a growth rate would be the envy of more developed countries like the United States. But it's several notches lower than the 6.9% annual growth that China reported for 2017.   Things could get tougher for China later in the year. As well as potential damage from the trade clash with the United States, the Chinese economy is expected to come under pressure from government efforts to cut risk in its financial system and close down inefficient, polluting factories.   "We think a further slowdown is on the cards before the end of the year," said Julian Evans-Pritchard, senior China economist at research firm Capital Economics.   Larry Hu, an economist at investment bank Macquarie, said that growth in China's huge export sector likely peaked in the first quarter and will slow in the coming months.   He pointed to a 9% rise in China's yuan versus the dollar over the past year as one reason. A stronger yuan makes Chinese goods pricier for foreign importers. China's exports are also likely to suffer if the global economy starts to cool off later in the year, Hu said.   Analysts and even Chinese government officials have for years cast doubt on the accuracy of the country's official economic data. Some economists use a range of other information sources -- like electricity output and freight shipments -- to generate independent estimates of how the Chinese economy is performing. Those gauges often don't tally with the government numbers.   "Official growth figures need to be taken with a grain of salt as they have been implausibly stable in recent years," Evans-Pritchard said. He thinks the Chinese economy actually grew at just 4.8% in the first quarter.  CEO of $20 million startup could lose his visa and his business
BauBax founder and CEO Hiral Sanghavi would like to say he's achieved the American Dream. After all, he immigrated to the United States just four years ago and, in that time, he has successfully launched a company that has brought in more than $20 million in sales. But there's one thing holding Sanghavi back: He may not be able to stay in the country much longer.   Just three years after he raised an impressive $9.2 million on Kickstarter to fund his idea to create and sell a travel jacket with a bunch of built-in features -- a neck pillow, eye mask, gloves, even a pocket to hold a soda can. Sanghavi may have to shut down the business and leave the United States.   "The thought is so scary I try not to dwell on it," says the 31-year-old.   Originally from India, Sanghavi and his now-wife, Yoganshi Shah, came to the United States to attend graduate school on international student visas.   Shah received her master's degree in computer science from Columbia University in 2010 and landed a job as a developer for a Silicon Valley tech company where she was given an H1-B worker visa.   About five years later, Sanghavi took a sabbatical from his MBA program at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management to launch BauxBax. That's when he got an H-4 visa, which was tied to Shah's H1-B. H-4 visas are given to spouses and dependents of H-1B workers. Unlike student visas, they allow the holder to work or to launch a business.   But Shah's H1-B visa expires in August and she will need to seek a renewal soon. "If my wife loses her H-1B visa for some reason, I will also lose my visa," he said.   The couple is especially nervous because the Trump administration has said it is toughening its stance on H1-Bs. In February, US Citizenship and Immigration Services issued a memo noting that it will require more information about an H-1B applicant's employment to ensure the worker is doing what they are hired for. It also said it may limit the length of the visa to less than three years.   One glimmer of hope is that Shah applied for her green card six years ago. If she is granted permanent resident status, Sanghavi would also be able to remain in the country. However, approval could take several more years.   "If my wife for whatever reason is unable to renew her H-1B, then we are without status. I would have within 30 days of the denial to shut down my company and leave the country," he said.   This impacts more than just the couple.   BauBax, which is 100% owned by Sanghavi, employs six full-time workers at its Redmond, Washington, office and 11 contractors who work remotely.   To date, the company has sold more than 200,000 BauBax jackets worldwide -- and they are not planning to stop there. For the past six months, Sanghavi and his team have been working on the next iteration of the BauBax travel jacket. This one has 25 features in it.   On Sunday, they closed the Kickstarter campaign for BauBax 2.0, raising $3.94 million from 21,409 backers -- well above their original $50,000 goal. They also launched a separate Indiegogo funding campaign for Baubax 2.0 on Monday.   Sanghavi is thrilled to see the continued support for the jacket. "But... betting your entire business on one product is risky," he said.   Later this year, he said the startup will launch two more Kickstarter campaigns tied to outdoor products as a way to expand the brand and diversify the product line. He wants BauBax to become a brand consumers might see in stores like REI.   "In my own small way, I want to believe I am contributing to the US economy through innovation, creating jobs and paying taxes," he said. "Still, I've only achieved the possibility of the American Dream," he said.  Britain's biggest carmaker cuts 1,000 jobs
The UK's biggest auto manufacturer -- Jaguar Land Rover -- is cutting 1,000 jobs in its home market as Brexit and slumping sales hit the quintessentially British brand. Jaguar Land Rover -- which is owned by India's Tata Motors (TTM) -- employs about 40,000 workers in the UK who produce over 500,000 vehicles a year.   The company is cutting the jobs at a factory in Birmingham that manufactures the Jaguar F-Pace along with the Land Rover Discovery and various Range Rover models.   It said that a sharp decline in British car sales caused by a loss of consumer confidence contributed to the decision. Jaguar Land Rover's UK sales in March were down 26% compared to the same month last year. Car sales across the industry were down nearly 16%.   Brits have cut back on big-ticket purchases as their wages have been squeezed by a rise in inflation, a side effect of the Brexit referendum in 2016. A sharp drop in the pound following the vote made imported products more expensive and ultimately caused inflation to spike above 3%.     Demand for Jaguar Land Rover cars has also fallen in Europe due to fallout from the diesel emissions scandal.   Jaguar Land Rover pointed out that "the huge drop in demand in diesels" led to its decision not to renew the contracts of 1,000 workers.   European governments are looking to clamp down on diesel sales after an outcry over the environmental damage caused by the engines. This has even led to calls for bans on heavily polluting diesel cars in some cities.   Drivers are holding off buying new diesel cars as they await clear government guidance on the future.   The UK's auto manufacturing sector employs over 800,000 workers but Brexit presents a big risk to the industry.   Carmakers rely on free, frictionless trade to get parts and make sales across the 28 nations in the European Union.   Jaguar Land Rover CEO Ralf Speth said earlier this year in an interview with Reuters that Brexit uncertainly was "really challenging" his company and the auto industry as a whole.   "You hardly see inward investment any more or every decision is taking longer," he said.   Auto makers are concerned that Brexit could lead to new tariffs, taxes and transit slowdowns at the UK border.   "A final deal that keeps our frictionless trade links with our biggest market, the EU ... is now a pressing priority," Mike Hawes, the head of the UK Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, said in a statement last month.   -- Ivana Kottasova contributed to this article  Britain's biggest carmaker cuts 1,000 jobs
The UK's biggest auto manufacturer -- Jaguar Land Rover -- is cutting 1,000 jobs in its home market as Brexit and slumping sales hit the quintessentially British brand. Jaguar Land Rover -- which is owned by India's Tata Motors (TTM) -- employs about 40,000 workers in the UK who produce over 500,000 vehicles a year.   The company is cutting the jobs at a factory in Birmingham that manufactures the Jaguar F-Pace along with the Land Rover Discovery and various Range Rover models.   It said that a sharp decline in British car sales caused by a loss of consumer confidence contributed to the decision. Jaguar Land Rover's UK sales in March were down 26% compared to the same month last year. Car sales across the industry were down nearly 16%.   Brits have cut back on big-ticket purchases as their wages have been squeezed by a rise in inflation, a side effect of the Brexit referendum in 2016. A sharp drop in the pound following the vote made imported products more expensive and ultimately caused inflation to spike above 3%.     Demand for Jaguar Land Rover cars has also fallen in Europe due to fallout from the diesel emissions scandal.   Jaguar Land Rover pointed out that "the huge drop in demand in diesels" led to its decision not to renew the contracts of 1,000 workers.   European governments are looking to clamp down on diesel sales after an outcry over the environmental damage caused by the engines. This has even led to calls for bans on heavily polluting diesel cars in some cities.   Drivers are holding off buying new diesel cars as they await clear government guidance on the future.   The UK's auto manufacturing sector employs over 800,000 workers but Brexit presents a big risk to the industry.   Carmakers rely on free, frictionless trade to get parts and make sales across the 28 nations in the European Union.   Jaguar Land Rover CEO Ralf Speth said earlier this year in an interview with Reuters that Brexit uncertainly was "really challenging" his company and the auto industry as a whole.   "You hardly see inward investment any more or every decision is taking longer," he said.   Auto makers are concerned that Brexit could lead to new tariffs, taxes and transit slowdowns at the UK border.   "A final deal that keeps our frictionless trade links with our biggest market, the EU ... is now a pressing priority," Mike Hawes, the head of the UK Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, said in a statement last month.   -- Ivana Kottasova contributed to this article  Trump contradicts own Treasury Department with China currency tweet
President Trump says China and Russia are playing games with their currencies. His own Treasury Department doesn't think so. Trump said on Twitter on Monday that the two countries are "playing the Currency Devaluation game as the US keeps raising interest rates. Not acceptable!"   Just last Friday, the Treasury Department published a report saying that no US trading partner is manipulating its exchange rate.   The rebuke from Trump added a layer to an escalating trade dispute between the United States and China. It also heightened tensions with Russia, after recently imposed sanctions by the United States and clashes over Syria.   It's not the first time Trump has accused countries of keeping their currencies artificially low to gain unfair advantage in trading with the United States.   Before the presidential election, Trump vowed to label China a currency manipulator on Day 1 of his administration. But he's repeatedly backed away from that promise. In May 2017, in fact, he said China had stopped manipulating its currency, and he personally took the credit.   The Treasury report issued Friday, a twice-a-year analysis of foreign exchange, kept to criticizing China for the "non-market direction" of its economy and warned of growing risks to its major trading partners and long-term economic outlook.   The Treasury Department also once again called for "further opening of the Chinese economy to US goods and services, as well as reducing the role of state intervention and allowing a greater role for market forces."   A White House spokesperson could not be immediately reached for comment.   Presidents have often used the semiannual reports as a diplomatic tool while engaging with countries that are seen as having exchange rate policies that harm US jobs and economic growth.   Designating a country a currency manipulator doesn't immediately trigger penalties, but is seen by other governments as a provocation.   Since Trump took office, the dollar has weakened substantially against other currencies such as the Chinese yuan. And the ruble has plummeted only in recent weeks because of sanctions against Russia by the United States.   Trump's tweet over a possible currency war comes as central bankers and finance ministers from around the world prepare to gather in Washington for the spring meetings of the International Monetary Fund.  Trump names two more picks to fill Fed Board
President Trump is slowly filling the empty seats on the Federal Reserve Board. On Monday, the president announced his plans to nominate Richard Clarida, a Columbia University economics professor and a global strategic adviser for the Pimco investment management firm, as vice chairman of the central bank.   Clarida, 60, a former Treasury official in the George W. Bush administration, would serve as Fed Chairman Jerome Powell's deputy. He would replace Stanley Fischer, who stepped down as the No. 2 in October. Powell began his four-year term in February.   Trump also named Michelle Bowman, a state bank commissioner of Kansas, to be a Fed governor. Her nomination will fulfill a 2014 congressional requirement to reserve one seat on the board for a community banker.   Both nominations need confirmation by the Senate. If confirmed, Clarida and Bowman would help fill four of the vacant seats remaining on the seven-member board, effectively helping Trump reshape the Fed.   Clarida, a respected economist, brings deep knowledge of financial markets acquired after working more than a decade as an asset manager at Pimco. He also brings experience as a policy maker in Washington, having worked in the Bush administration and as a senior economist on President Ronald Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers.   Both are expected to join the Fed at a critical time for the central bank as it gradually moves to raise interest rates and unwinds its multitrillion-dollar balance sheet. So far, Powell has offered an upbeat assessment of the economy's outlook.   The Fed has planned three rate hikes this year, but has signaled it could raise rates faster if the economy keeps getting stronger and inflation reaches the Fed's target.   "We could get four hikes if the growth in the economy is stronger because of the tax cuts," Clarida said in a interview with Bloomberg Television on December 13. "But importantly, also, you'd actually need some indication that inflation is moving up too quickly for the Fed's taste."   A graduate of Harvard University with a Ph.D. in economics, Clarida is best known for his work on how to use computer models to predict how the economy will react to shocks and policy changes. He's also done research on monetary policy rules, like those developed by John Taylor, a Stanford University economics professor.   Bowman has extensive Washington experience, too. Before taking over her family's Farmers & Drovers Bank in Council Grove, Kansas, in 2010, she served in top positions at the Department on Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the George W. Bush administration. She also worked as a congressional adviser to former Senator Bob Dole, a Kansas Republican.   Trump has made five nominations to the Fed board. One of his picks, Marvin Goodfriend, nominated in November, has yet to clear the Senate because of opposition by most Democrats and Republican Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky.  Japan is heading for a trade showdown with America
The United States and Japan trade $200 billion in goods and services each year. It's a vital relationship President Donald Trump wants to overhaul, but Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe isn't so keen. The two leaders are expected to talk about trade and other top issues such as North Korea during Abe's visit to Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort that starts Tuesday.   Japan is the United States' fourth biggest trading partner and a key military ally in Asia. But Trump is unhappy about trade between the two countries, which he has described as "not fair" and "not open."   Japan 'has hit us hard'   Japan sells far more goods to the United States than it buys back, creating a surplus of nearly $70 billion at the end of last year. Countries that run big surpluses with the United States -- especially China, which has by far the biggest -- have been frequent targets of Trump's ire.   He tweeted Friday that the United States is "working to make a deal" with Japan, which he said "has hit us hard on trade for years."   That's a reference to the US government's desire to start talks on a free trade deal that would give American companies better access to the Japanese economy, the third largest in the world.   But Japan's government, which was dismayed by Trump's decision to pull out of a huge Pacific free trade deal last year, has made it clear that it's in no hurry to sign up for bilateral negotiations with Washington.   "When two countries negotiate, the stronger country gets stronger," Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said late last month, predicting that a bilateral trade deal would cause "unnecessary" pain for Japan.   That's because Japan is eager to shield important industries like farming from foreign competition, experts say. Under current rules, agricultural imports into Japan face significant tariffs.   The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), the regional trade deal Trump pulled out of last year, would have helped lower those barriers for American farmers.   Under pressure from Republican lawmakers and governors from farm states last week, Trump asked his top economic advisers to take another look at the TPP, which Japan and other countries revived after the US exit.   Experts say the Trump administration would face big hurdles trying to get back into the pact, and Japan and other member countries responded cautiously to the idea last week.     Threat of more tariffs   Flirting with the idea of returning to the TPP could be part of Trump's efforts to pressure Japan into bilateral talks.   The United States may also use the "threat of additional import duties as a bargaining tool to force Japan to sign a bilateral free trade agreement," said Marcel Thieliant, senior Japan economist at research firm Capital Economics.   One way the Trump administration could inflict pain on the Japanese economy is by making it harder for Japanese automakers to export cars to the United States, according to Thieliant.   But that may not make a big difference, since Japan's top car companies have huge factories in the United States, where they have been increasing investment for decades.   There are other levers Washington could also seek to use.   Unlike many American allies, Japan is still subject to new US tariffs on exports of steel and aluminum to the United States.   Thieliant said the United States could use a possible exemption for Japan as a bargaining chip to move forward talks on trade. After renegotiating a free trade deal with South Korea, the Trump administration said South Korean exporters would be largely exempt from the new steel and aluminum tariffs.     'Japan is an open and free marketplace'   Even a new trade agreement may not reduce America's trade deficit with Japan by much.    Last year, the United States imported $40 billion worth of Japanese vehicles. Roughly $500 million of US-made vehicles went the other way.   That yawning gap isn't the result of traditional trade barriers like tariffs. Experts say Japan has a fiercely competitive auto market where sales are declining and American cars have long been seen as ill-suited for Japanese consumers.   Fiat Chrysler (FCAU), which has recently increased sales in Japan, says its success is the result of adapting to the local market. That includes adding features to its vehicles, such as wing mirrors that fold in quickly when parking.   Pontus Haggstrom, the CEO of the company's Japan operations, said the country does have some unique requirements for testing and certification of imported vehicles.   "It's a bit time consuming, but it isn't a sales inhibitor for us," he told CNNMoney. "The import tariffs were dropped in the 80s, so for all intents and purposes, Japan is an open and free marketplace."   -- CNN's Anna Stewart contributed to this report.  China slaps 179% charge on US sorghum imports
China is slapping a huge import charge on a crop that it accuses American farmers of dumping on its markets. China's Commerce Ministry said Tuesday that customs officers will charge importers a fee of about 179% on US sorghum after an investigation found the shipments were unfairly subsidized and damaging Chinese producers.   Sorghum is a grain that is used to feed livestock and make a liquor that's very popular with Chinese drinkers.   China is the largest buyer of American sorghum products. Its imports of the crop were worth about $960 million last year, according to Chinese customs data.   The move is likely to stoke fears of a trade war between the United States and China. Tensions have risen sharply since the start of 2018, with both governments announcing plans to slap tariffs on major imports.   China announced that it would investigate alleged dumping of American sorghum back in February.   "Sorghum is a good target for a trade dispute since it would have a major financial impact on the US," Loren Puette, director at ChinaAg, an agricultural research firm, told CNN at the time.   Squeezing the sorghum trade could also hurt America's rural economy -- particularly in states like Kansas -- where President Donald Trump has a lot of support.   The Commerce Ministry said its ruling was preliminary, and that the charges -- which take effect on Wednesday -- were temporary. It said it would announce a final decision in the sorghum probe at a later date.     China has already said it plans to hit US sorghum imports with tariffs of 25% as part of retaliatory sanctions on $50 billion of US goods unveiled earlier this month. There is currently no timetable for the introduction of those tariffs.   The Chinese government has also threatened a 25% tariff on soybeans, a much more significant crop for US farmers. China was the largest buyer of US soybeans last year, gobbling up $12.3 billion worth of imports.   -- CNN's Steven Jiang contributed to this report.  IMF says global economy will slow after 2019
The global economy is still on an upswing, but the good times may not last beyond the next year or two. The International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday it expects global growth will inch up from 3.8% in 2017 -- its fastest pace in six years -- to 3.9% in 2018 and 2019. That's in line with its most recent estimate in January.   It also upgraded its forecast for US growth in 2018 to 2.9%, up from 2.7% previously.   But things don't look as good in 2020 and beyond.   "Global growth is projected to soften beyond the next couple of years," the IMF said in its latest World Economic Outlook.   "Risks beyond the next several quarters clearly lean toward the downside," the report added.   The IMF listed several factors that could drag on growth, including rising protectionism, escalating political and trade tensions, and "waning popular support for global economic integration."   The World Bank made a similar prediction in January, saying growth could start flagging in the next couple of years as major economies such as the United States, China and the European Union begin to cool.   While President Trump's tax cuts are expected to boost US and global growth in the short term, the report warned that those effects will soon wear off as well.   "US tax reform will subtract momentum starting in 2020," the IMF said.  India's ATMs are running out of cash ... again
Less than 18 months after a ban on most of India's cash left millions of people scrambling for banknotes, some ATMs are once again running dry. India's government blamed reports of a new cash shortage in several states on an "unusual spurt in currency demand" over the last three months. Demand for cash shot up by 450 billion rupees ($6.9 billion) in the first two weeks of April alone, it said.   "The government is taking all steps to ensure that ATMs are supplied with cash and to get non-functional ATMs normalized at the earliest," the Finance Ministry said in a statement.   Finance Minister Arun Jaitley tweeted on Tuesday that he had conducted a review of the cash situation in the country and found that there "was more than adequate currency in circulation." He added that the shortage was "being tackled quickly."   The finance ministry did not explain the sudden increase in demand for cash, and did not immediately respond to a request for additional comment.   Images of shuttered ATMs and helpless citizens have been making the rounds on Indian media, reminiscent of the aftermath of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's shock announcement in 2016 banning 500- and 1,000-rupee notes.   Modi said at the time that the move was intended to combat widespread tax evasion and digitize India's economy, though experts continue to debate whether those goals were achieved.   The ban removed 86% of the country's currency from circulation at a stroke, and threw the cash-dependent economy into turmoil for weeks. Some ATMs are still being retrofitted to take the new 200-, 500- and 2,000-rupee notes that replaced the banned cash, and that may have contributed to the current shortage.  Vadodara: People complain of inconvenience due to lack of currency in ATMs; say, 'most of the ATMs were out of service, could only withdraw Rs 10,000 from one working ATM that also after spending a lot of time in the queue' #Gujarat pic.twitter.com/ZkbGCc4j4f   Telangana: People in Hyderabad say, 'We have been unable to withdraw cash from ATMs as the kiosks (ATM Kiosk), in several parts of the city, have run out of cash. We have visited several ATMs since yesterday but it is the situation everywhere'. pic.twitter.com/wRMS3jgjyP    Printing more money   The Reserve Bank of India, the country's central bank, insisted late Tuesday that it had "sufficient cash" in its vaults but said it was increasing the printing of rupee notes at its presses around the country.   "The shortage may be felt in some pockets largely due to logistical issues of replenishing ATMs frequently and the recalibration of ATMs being still underway," the bank said in a statement.   Opposition leaders criticized Modi and his party, the BJP, and compared the situation to the chaos triggered by the 2016 cash ban.  ATMs were empty in November 2016. ATMs are empty now. And the only party flush with cash is the BJP: the people suffer.   Seeing reports of ATMs running out of cash in several States. Big notes missing. Reminder of #DeMonetisation days. Is there a Financial Emergency going on in the country? #CashCrunch #CashlessATMs    While that demonetization exercise brought large sectors of the economy to a halt and hit businesses hard, India shrugged off the resulting slump to post 7.2% growth — faster than China's — in the quarter that ended in December.   Rajnish Kumar, the chairman of India's largest state-run lender, State Bank of India, told a local news channel that the cash crunch was being "overstated."   He pointed out that the amount of currency in circulation as of April 6 was higher than when Modi banned the country's two biggest notes.   "To say there is a shortage of currency is not the right statement to make," Kumar said.  This Texas military town has nearly closed the black and white homeownership gap
David Michael Jones can't resist describing the house he bought a year ago in a suburb of Killeen, Texas — it's 2,800 square feet, set up on a hill, with a formal dining room and an enormous master bedroom that includes a bathroom big enough to do cartwheels in. "To me, I'm on top of the world," says Jones, 68, a reverend and father of nine. "It's my world, but I'm on top of it."   Jones credits his ability to buy such an ideal abode, in large part, to his long career with the military. He retired with a full pension and disability benefits that total about $70,000 a year, and obtained special home loan financing through the Veterans Administration in a place where houses are plentiful and affordable. And as a fully disabled veteran in Texas — resulting from his post-traumatic stress disorder, diabetes and hypertension — he doesn't have to pay property taxes either.   Jones' path to real estate bliss is far from the norm for African Americans.   Fifty years after the passage of the Fair Housing Act, which banned lending discrimination on the basis of race, the black homeownership rate in the US is back down to where it was in the 1960s. That's mostly because of a precipitous decline that began in 2000, as African Americans were disproportionately hard-hit by predatory lending and the foreclosure crisis that followed.   In 2015, only 41.2% of black households owned their homes, compared to 71.2% of white households. That disparity explains much of America's staggering wealth inequality, with the median white family owning ten times the assets of the median black family.   But Killeen, a city of about 140,0000 people located an hour's drive north of Austin, is different.   According to an analysis by the Urban Institute, a non-partisan think tank, Killeen has the lowest racial homeownership gap in the country. In this metropolitan area, the white homeownership rate is only 14.5 percentage points above the rate for the city's black households, which stands at 48.5%.   The reason: Fort Hood, one of the largest military installations in the United States, serves as a powerful on-ramp for opportunity for historically disadvantaged populations. (The city with the next smallest racial homeownership gap is in Fayetteville, North Carolina, which is home to the mammoth Fort Bragg.)   Although Fort Hood says it does not track the racial composition of its active duty population of about 37,500 people and 46,500 family members, African Americans are overrepresented in the armed forces generally, and 40% of Killeen's overall population is black.   Most soldiers live outside Fort Hood's walls, in private housing. On top of their base pay, soldiers receive a housing allowance, which can go toward either renting or buying a home. With a VA certificate, they can purchase a home with no down payment and a lower-than-market interest rate.   And in the Killeen metropolitan area, where the median home price is only about 68% of the national median, even the lowest-ranking soldier can afford to buy.   "If I'm an E4, and I'm making barely enough to survive, I can still buy a home and have my boss pay the mortgage," says John Driver, who served as operations director for Fort Hood's housing division from 2002 through 2016.   In addition, the military can ease one of the barriers to homeownership that African-American people too often face in the rest of the country: Expensive credit. Many studies have shown that black and Hispanic people have a harder time getting loans and face higher interest rates if they are approved.   Lenders don't give the troops much trouble, especially in a place as diverse in Killeen. "They still scrutinize, but they know that if a person has that [VA] certificate, then they have the means to pay that monthly mortgage," Driver says.    According to lending data obtained through the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, 72.9% of home loans in Killeen were financed by the VA in 2016, compared to 11.2% nationwide.   There are some downsides. Killeen's abundance of single-family homes, which are still mushrooming in subdivisions across the scrubby rolling hills, keeps real estate from appreciating very much. So houses in the city aren't as good of an investment as those in hot markets like Austin.   But in Killeen, the military offers other routes to prosperity. In exchange for their commitment and potentially putting their lives at risk overseas veterans enjoy tuition benefits through the GI Bill, as well as preferences for small business loans, government jobs, and federal contracts, which can be quite lucrative.   "The way to really build black wealth is to go into the military in your 20s, and get all your education," says Gregory Johnson, a veteran and real estate investor who serves on Killeen's city council. "Then you come out and you can roll into these jobs, and you're drawing thousands of dollars per month."   And veterans tend to stick around the area. According to the Heart of Texas Defense Alliance, a non-profit coalition of Fort Hood-area governments and businesses, about 85% of local retirees remain within the region; 295,000 veterans and their family members now live in the Killeen area. It's a convenient place to retire, with a large VA hospital nearby, and each of Texas' major cities within a few hours drive.   In addition, the relative economic parity that Fort Hood fosters between the races also supports integration and harmony that other places lack, longtime residents say. It's easy to find a black real estate broker or a black dentist, and the walls of the hospital are filled with portraits of black physicians. With few private schools, everyone's kids end up in the same classrooms — a far cry from educational segregation in big Texas cities like Houston.   "It's the only city I know where there isn't a 'white neighborhood' and a 'black neighborhood,'" says Ross Caviness, an insurance agent who's lived in Killeen since 1982. "They'd have Klan rallies in Waco. And they still do. But I think Killeen is like an island. You just don't feel the racial tension."   Of course, that doesn't mean Killeen doesn't have its share of problems. There are neighborhoods with housing in bad condition, and the poverty rate is about average for Texas, higher for black people than for whites.   But for thousands, like Jones, the military and Killeen offered a ticket to financial security that employment in the private sector so often doesn't, especially for African Americans. "Jobs were difficult in the 1960s and the 1970s. And so I took the easy way out," Jones says.   It wasn't really easy, he admits — after four tours in Vietnam, Germany, Japan and Korea, he was left with PTSD that still sometimes haunts him. But eventually, it paid off.   "I had a roof over my head. I could feed my family. I was able to purchase an automobile. Unless they shut down Fort Knox, I knew that I was going to get a paycheck," Jones says. "And now my children are grown and gone, my grandchildren are grown and gone, I have great grandchildren, and they can come to Pawpaw's house. And I'm ok with that."  US-China trade: 24 hours that escalated the fight
After a brief lull in the skirmishing, the trade battle between the United States and China is escalating once again. In the last 24 hours alone, the United States dealt a potentially crippling blow to a big Chinese tech company, Beijing hit out at a major American export crop, and President Donald Trump fired off another angry tweet.   "I hesitate to call it a [trade] war ... It's more of a trade battle at the moment, but it's escalating," said Ian Mitchell, a trade expert and senior policy fellow at the Center for Global Development.   China made clear again Tuesday that it was willing to stand its ground in the increasingly tense standoff between the world's two biggest economies.   "If the US continues to act recklessly ... we stand ready to show our sword, and fight to win this battle to defend multilateralism and free trade," Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said in response to a punitive US move against Chinese smartphone maker ZTE.   A potential trade war has been brewing since April 2017 when Trump directed the Commerce Department to investigate whether imports of foreign steel from China and other countries could be a threat to national security.   Fast forward to March 2018: The US imposed a 25% tariff on steel imports from China and many other nations. Beijing responded by imposing tariffs on US imports worth around $3 billion. This escalated to the point that Trump ultimately threatened to impose new tariffs on $150 billion of Chinese goods.   Here's a catchup on the latest moves that are turning up the heat.   Sorghum slammed   China said Tuesday that it would introduce a huge import charge on US shipments of sorghum, a grain that is used to feed livestock and make a liquor that's very popular with Chinese drinkers.   Starting Wednesday, Chinese customs officers will charge importers a fee of about 179% on US sorghum after an investigation found the shipments were unfairly subsidized and damaging Chinese producers.   China is the largest buyer of American sorghum, and its imports were worth nearly $1 billion last year.   ZTE banned   The US cracked down on ZTE, one of China's biggest tech companies, on Monday.   The Department of Commerce has banned American companies from selling parts and services to ZTE for seven years. The US threatened the ban in 2017 after ZTE illegally shipped equipment to Iran and North Korea. Further misconduct led the Commerce Department to impose the ban, according to a statement from the agency.   ZTE buys microchips from Qualcomm (QCOM) and glass from Corning (CNIG), and the company is the fourth biggest smartphone supplier in the United States.   The company's shares were suspended from trading in Hong Kong on Tuesday following the US announcement.   Currency clash   During his presidential campaign, Trump repeatedly accused Beijing of undervaluing its currency to boost exports. By May 2017, he said the manipulation had stopped, and he personally took the credit.   Now, he seems to be having second thoughts. In a tweet on Monday, he said the world's second largest economy was once again "playing the Currency Devaluation game" and this was "Not acceptable!" (He also lumped Russia in with China.)  Russia and China are playing the Currency Devaluation game as the U.S. keeps raising interest rates. Not acceptable!    The rebuke from Trump contradicted a recent report from the Treasury Department saying that no US trading partner was manipulating its exchange rate.   Since Trump took office, the dollar has weakened against other currencies including the Chinese yuan.   "It seems that President Trump might be looking to focus on currencies next to influence his trade battle," said Hussein Sayed, chief market strategist at FXTM.   More to come?   To top it all, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday that US trade representatives are considering fresh retaliatory measures against Beijing for its restrictions on American tech and cloud services.   The story, which cited unnamed sources, said the officials believed China was unfairly restricting trade in these US services.     Experts are deeply concerned about how the situation is unfolding.   From the perspective of Chinese trade negotiators, "there is not enough understanding on what is being sought" by the Trump Administration, explained Roberto Azevêdo, the director-general of the World Trade Organization, in a Monday interview with CNN's Christiane Amanpour.   Demanding "reciprocity" might be a digestible political slogan, he said, but "for a negotiator on the other side, it's not that clear... They need more details."   Mitchell also noted that the moves by both sides didn't adhere to international norms.   "From a broader perspective, these are two countries ignoring the rules of the global trade system and engaging in tit-for-tat trade measures," said Mitchell.   "I think it will damage business in both countries. But it's still at a stage where it's inconvenient rather than a full blown economic crisis," he said.   The flare up comes after recent signs that tensions may be easing. A week ago, Chinese President Xi Jinping said his government would cut tariffs on vehicle imports this year, a long-promised move that addresses one of Trump's major gripes.   There was more news in that vein Tuesday, with the Chinese government outlining a timetable for removing restrictions on foreign ownership of automakers in the world's biggest car market.   -- CNN's Steven Jiang in Beijing contributed reporting.  The high cost of taking away prisoners' Medicaid coverage 
For Lori Stone, getting out of prison has always been a little nerve-racking. She's been in and out of jail since she was 18. Every time she's been released, she's lost her disability benefits and her Medicaid coverage. That meant she couldn't afford her rent or her medication for her bipolar disorder until she was able to re-enroll, which could take weeks or months -- even if she went to all her appointments on time.   "That would put me into a bad spell of being depressed, and my moods would be bad," says Stone, 37, over the phone from the Douglas County Jail in Omaha, Nebraska. "And then I would end up doing something stupid like shoplifting to get alcohol. It's just a vicious cycle."   That critical gap in safety net programs, which has set Stone up for failure again and again, is a harsh reality for millions of people released from prison every year — and one that counties are now trying to get fixed.   Local jails and prisons are required to provide prisoners with adequate health care. But the interruption of federal and state programs inmates had been depending on can cause major problems, making it more likely that people will cycle in and out of jail.   Federal rules prohibit states from billing Medicaid for any inmate care unless the covered individual requires a hospital stay of at least 24 hours. They also cut off Social Security and Disability payments and some veterans' benefits. Medicaid benefits are taken away as soon as a suspect has been booked into jail, whether they've been proven guilty or not. If they are convicted and incarcerated, Social Security and VA benefits disappear 30 and 60 days later, respectively.   Some states simply suspend benefits, allowing inmates to pick them back up as soon as they're released. But 34 states still terminate enrollment either immediately or after the prisoner spends a certain period of time behind bars.   With prisons and jails at the front lines of treating mental illness and the opioid epidemic, that has saddled local governments with billions of dollars in medical costs — $8.1 billion total in 2015, comprising roughly a fifth of correctional budgets, according to the Pew Charitable Trusts — and left their inmates lurching in and out of care.   For example: About 85% of the inmate population under the care of the Hillsborough County, New Hampshire Department of Corrections has some kind of substance abuse problem, says Superintendent David Dionne. Out of an average daily population of about 480 people, between one and two dozen are detoxing at any given time.   Dionne spent $330,000 last year on the medications for diseases like Hepatitis C, which is particularly common among drug users who share needles, along with patching up the physical sores that come along with injecting frequently.   The department contracted with an outside company to provide a 60-day in-house treatment program, but most inmates don't stay long enough to go through with it. And once they leave, treatment ends — at least until they manage to get covered again by Medicaid or other insurance.   "On the outside, if they didn't get their treatment, they'd come right back through the front door again," Dionne says.   In order to smooth the path back to the outside world and reduce the strain on state budgets, 16 states and Washington, D.C. simply suspend Medicaid benefits and automatically reinstate them upon the inmate's release, rather than terminating enrollment entirely. That ensures newly released prisoners have coverage immediately, since re-enrolling can take weeks or months.   Nebraska passed a law allowing for suspension rather than termination in 2015, which means that this time, Lori Stone will be able to seamlessly regain her benefits and join a long-term treatment program once she gets out.   But even in states that automatically reinstate federal benefits, the interruption disrupts lives.   Another Douglas County inmate, Julia Conger, is a single mother of four children who was jailed in January for unlawful possession of someone else's debit card. She had been supporting her kids with her disability benefits, and they also received health care through her Medicaid coverage — both of which ceased when Conger went to jail.   When her sister took Conger's daughter to the dentist for a tooth problem, she was no longer covered. (Although new guardians can transfer Medicaid benefits to children in their care, it doesn't happen immediately.)   "It's causing my daughter pain," Conger says. "And it's terrible for me, not being able to do anything."     Given the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, the cost of health care in jails is a particularly large lost opportunity for local governments. If it weren't for the Medicaid and Social Security rules, the federal government would cover at least half of their expenses, which would especially be a relief for cash-strapped rural counties that have to bring in doctors from elsewhere and may not have the funding for expensive drug treatment programs.   "They're going to be in crisis in a few years unless we find some alternative," says Ron Manderscheid, who heads the National Association of County Behavioral Health and Developmental Disability Directors. "What is the trade-off between operating our schools and spending this huge amount of money on the county jails for health care?"   But spending more on health care for those who've run afoul of the law is a hard sell in Washington.   In 2017, legislators introduced a bill that would at least maintain Medicaid eligibility for pretrial inmates, who accounted for 65% of the 740,700 people in jails in 2016, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics. Another bill would require states to suspend rather than terminate benefits for juvenile inmates. A third would allow counties to reinstate Medicaid for inmates 30 days before their release.   None of those bills have progressed beyond introduction. The one that appears to have the best chance of passing is a measure sponsored by Ohio Republican Rep. Mike Turner that would allow Medicaid to cover an inmate's substance abuse treatments.   "Where we're seeing current traction is the opioid epidemic," says Brian Bowden, a health policy expert with the National Association of Counties. "If you were starting folks on treatment before they're released, then you're not having that revolving cycle."  States aren't waiting for Washington to require poor residents to work
President Trump and Republicans in Congress are setting the stage to make more low-income Americans work for benefits. But a growing number of states are already doing just that. Many of the states' efforts focus on the food stamp program, which already requires some recipients to work.   Currently, able-bodied adults ages 18 to 49 who don't have minor children must work or enroll in a training program for 20 hours a week. Otherwise, they can only receive benefits for up to three months every three years.   But states can request waivers of the work requirement for areas where unemployment is at least 10% or there is an insufficient number of jobs, as defined by the Department of Labor.   Typically, about one-third of the nation lives in a place where the work requirement is suspended, though that share skyrocketed during and just after the Great Recession.   Some governors and lawmakers say that their states are now in better financial shape so they don't need to apply for waivers. Instead, they say these food stamp recipients should start moving toward independence by getting jobs or enrolling in training programs. Plus, they argue, with near record-low unemployment, their states have a labor shortage that low-income residents can help fill.   Kentucky, which had a statewide waiver until 2016, is rapidly moving to reimpose work requirements in all but eight of its counties. By the end of May, recipients in 112 counties will be subject to the three-month time limit on benefits if they don't work, up from 20 counties at the end of last year.   Lifting these waivers will impact most of the 87,000 Kentucky adults in the program who don't have dependents, according to the left-leaning Kentucky Center for Economic Policy.   "Since jobs are still hard to find in significant parts of the state, this change will result in loss of food assistance and harm to economic activity in already-struggling local communities," Dustin Pugel, a policy analyst at the center, wrote in a blog post.   Nearly four dozen counties and three cities meet the criteria to easily gain federal waiver approval, he noted.   There are a number of ways that Kentuckians on food stamps can meet the work requirement, said Kristi Putnam, program manager for Kentucky HEALTH. In addition to holding jobs, recipients can go to training programs, take GED or vocational classes or volunteer. That's why state leaders felt it was appropriate to stop asking for waivers, she said.   Kentucky officials are working with local businesses to develop more job and training opportunities for food stamp enrollees. The state is also gearing up to implement work requirements in its Medicaid program later this year.   In West Virginia, state officials will start phasing out the number of counties with work requirement waivers later this year. Currently, food stamp enrollees in only nine out of the state's 55 counties are subject to the time limit. Going forward, only counties designated as having a "labor surplus" -- more workers than available jobs -- will be able to apply to suspend the work requirement.   But in October 2022, West Virginia will no longer be able to apply for a waiver for any county, no matter the economic circumstances, according to a bill passed by the state legislature and signed by Governor Jim Justice last month.   This will not only hurt many low-income residents, but it could harm businesses in many areas, said Seth DiStefano, policy and outreach director at the West Virginia Center on Budget & Policy.   "In some communities, SNAP is literally keeping grocery stores open," he said.   West Virginia's Department of Health and Human Resources did not return calls seeking comment.   Meanwhile, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker last week signed a series of bills that are part of his Wisconsin Works for Everyone welfare reform plan. The bills aim to apply the work requirement to parents of school-age children, to increase the number of hours food stamp recipients must work and to explore developing employment plans for those living in public housing. Many of the proposals will require either federal approval or a change in federal law.   "We want to help those in need move from government dependence to true independence through the dignity of work," said Walker, who ended waivers for able-bodied adults without dependents statewide in 2015.   At least a dozen states are also interested in the Trump administration's willingness to require Medicaid recipients to work, a historic change in the program. Three states -- Kentucky, Indiana and Arkansas -- have already received federal approval to do so.   The states' actions come as President Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress look to overhaul the nation's safety net system. Last week, Trump signed an executive order directing federal agencies to promote employment for those on public assistance.   Also, on Thursday, Republicans introduced the House farm bill, which calls for expanding the number of food stamp recipients who are subject to work requirements. The legislation would require those in their 50s to have jobs or enter training programs and also would extend the mandate to parents with school-age children, starting in fiscal 2021.  Trump renews attack on TPP: 'I don't like the deal'
President Donald Trump has renewed his attack on a huge Pacific trade pact just days after raising the possibility of the United States rejoining it. Trump wrote on Twitter late Tuesday that he thought the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) didn't represent a good deal for the world's biggest economy.   "While Japan and South Korea would like us to go back into TPP, I don't like the deal for the United States," he tweeted.   "Too many contingencies and no way to get out if it doesn't work. Bilateral deals are far more efficient, profitable and better for OUR workers. Look how bad WTO is to US."    Trump pulled the United States out of TPP in one of his first acts after becoming president in January last year. The 11 remaining countries in the trade agreement have since forged ahead with a new deal without the United States.   But last week Trump floated the possibility of rejoining the agreement, when he asked his top trade and economic advisers to investigate "whether or not a better deal could be negotiated," the White House said.   TPP countries including Japan, Australia and New Zealand had responded cautiously to Trump's rethink, warning that renegotiating the deal would be difficult.   Trump's latest rejection of the TPP came during a summit with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Mar-a-Lago, where the two leaders are discussing North Korea and trade.   "I suspect that Abe highlighted to Trump the impossibility of a wholesale renegotiation of the TPP agreement at this time," said Deborah Elms, executive director of the Asian Trade Centre in Singapore. The US president's latest tweet "shows that Trump still does not understand the agreement," she added.   Trump has been pushing Japan for a bilateral trade agreement that would give American companies better access to the Japanese economy, the third largest in the world. Trump has previously described trade with Japan as "not fair" and "not open."   Japan's government, which was dismayed by Trump's decision to pull out of the TPP last year, has made it clear that it's in no hurry to sign up for bilateral negotiations with Washington.   It was not immediately clear why Trump mentioned South Korea in the context of TPP. The country is not part of the TPP, although its government has at times expressed interest in joining provided the US also signs up.  Fed official worried about recession indicator 
A top Federal Reserve official is worried about a warning sign in the bond market. The yield curve, a measure of short-term and long-term US Treasury bond rates, is flattening as investors prepare for the Fed to raise interest rates to keep the economy from overheating. Some economists fear the curve could tip over and invert if the Fed slams the brakes too quickly.   "I am getting concerned about the flattening yield curve," St. Louis Fed President James Bullard told CNN's Richard Quest on Wednesday. "The inverted yield curve is a powerful predictor of economic downturns."   The curve inverted before the Great Recession a decade ago and before a shorter recession in 2001.   But Fed Governor Randal Quarles said Wednesday that an inverted yield curve would not signal the United States is entering a recession anytime soon.   "I don't think it's likely the inversion of the yield curve is a reflection of a recession to come," Quarles said at the annual Bretton Woods conference in Washington.   Two-year bond yields, sensitive to the Fed's actions, are rising as investors' expectations for rate hikes go up. Ten-year yields have halted their march toward 3% as inflation fears ease.   "I think fundamentally the market just doesn't see that much inflation pressure," Bullard said.   The gap between the two-year and the 10-year has tightened to its narrowest since 2008.   Bullard warned that if the Fed raises interest rates too aggressively, it could push the curve into an inversion. The Fed plans three rate hikes in 2018, barring a surprising pickup in inflation.   "I think we've put ourselves in a good position here," Bullard said. "I would just not go any further unless there are further surprises."   — CNNMoney's Matt Egan and Donna Borak contributed to this story.   Fed official: It's too early to ease post-crisis rules on US banks
A top Federal Reserve official says it's too early to ease post-crisis rules on the nation's banks, especially at a time of growing risk in the financial system. Federal Reserve Governor Lael Brainard said Thursday that regulators should wait until the rules have been tested by severe stress before making changes, such as loosening requirements for how much cash banks have to keep on hand.   "Prudence would argue for waiting until we have tested how the new framework performs through a full [economic] cycle before we make judgments about its performance," Brainard said in prepared remarks at the Global Finance Forum in Washington.   Under the Fed's new leadership, regulators have taken early steps to rewrite rules for the nation's banks that would require them to hold less cash to weather a crisis.   Separately, Congress is considering the most sweeping changes yet to the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory reform law, which would ease the burden on dozens of regional banks and thousands of community banks across the country.   Randal Quarles, the Fed's vice chair of bank supervision, who was nominated by President Trump, said this week that recent steps by the central bank were not intended to deregulate the banking industry, but to make regulations more efficient.   "It's not a question of deregulating. It's not a question of swinging the pendulum back," Quarles said Wednesday at the Bretton Woods conference in Washington. "It's a question of achieving objectives with an eye for efficiency, and I think that can significantly reduce the burden on the financial sector that doesn't impair safety and soundness."   At a hearing on Capitol Hill on Thursday, Republican Senator John Kennedy of Louisiana warned Quarles that regulators should "tread carefully" before changing rules "until we see how our banks do with a full-blown recession."   Democratic senators raised their own concerns about why the Fed pushed ahead with its recent proposals despite a lack of consensus among Fed governors and other regulators.   Last week, Brainard cast a rare "no" vote when the Fed announced plans to soften a key safeguard known as the leverage ratio that megabanks must adhere to.   "The decisions being made now may lead us to the next crash," said Senator Sherrod Brown, the top Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee.   "When times are good, policymakers, lawmakers and regulators — if they're not vigilant — can get lulled into a sense that 'this time is different,'" he added, referencing a 2009 book on the history of financial crises.   Fed officials have said risks to financial stability are "moderate" for now, but growing. They point to lofty stock prices and ballooning corporate debt as two potential trouble spots.   Global debt, public and private, has swelled to an all-time high of $164 trillion, making it more difficult for countries to steer out of a fiscal calamity and more expensive for them to pay off debts as interest rates rise, according to the International Monetary Fund.   Some Fed officials and other world policy makers also worry that recent steps by Republicans and the Trump administration to enact tax cuts, at a time when the economy is healthy, could speed up inflation faster than anticipated.   Such a speedup could force the Fed to lift interest rates faster. And if the Fed gets the timing wrong, it could bring on a recession.   Brainard said there would be "severe costs" if banks did not have enough capital to absorb losses caused by a stressful episode in the financial system.   Instead, she called for banks to hold more money than they already do to ensure they can shoulder a crisis.   "By the time losses are rising, it is generally too late to start building buffers, which becomes all too clear with devastating consequences in some some countries during the last crisis," she said.  China refuses to recycle more of the world's trash
China just threw another curveball at the global recycling industry. The Chinese government says it's extending last year's ban on imports of items such as unsorted paper and some plastics to dozens more types of recyclable materials, including steel waste, used auto parts and old ships.   For decades, other countries shipped containers full of scrap and waste to China for recycling. But Beijing stunned the recycling industry last year with its ban on imports of 24 varieties of solid waste.   Now, it's adding 32 more types to the list -- half of them at the end of this year, and the other half at the end of 2019.   China has billed the ban as a way to reduce environmental damage, but some experts say it could make it worse.   "The new restrictions, just like the old restrictions, are poorly considered measures that will worsen the global environment and China's competitiveness," said Adam Minter, author of "Junkyard Planet: Travels in the Billion Dollar Trash Trade."   The measures, announced Thursday, create a new headache for countries that depend on China to recycle their waste. They're still struggling to adjust to the ban announced in 2017 and will need years to expand their own facilities, Minter said.   Burying waste instead    The restrictions have reportedly led to recycling waste piling up in developed countries with nowhere to send it.   Earlier this week, a city in the Australian state of Queensland said it would start burying its recyclable waste in landfill because of the spiraling costs contractors were demanding to deal with it.     The restrictions have also caused environmental problems in inside China by depriving manufacturers of recycled materials they need to meet demand. That means they have to buy new paper pulp and plastic resins, increasing the environmental toll of their operations, according to Minter.   Ban could hurt consumers   The latest measures could cut Chinese manufacturers off from a cheap source of metals like nickel.   "That move will raise manufacturing costs in China and will be passed along to consumers," Minter added.   China has been importing billions of dollars of foreign trash every year, so the companies that rely on the trade are now having to adapt to the new rules.   The US Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries said the measures announced this week will impact about $400 million of scrap exports from the United States to China.   "We remain concerned about the effect these policies have on the global supply chain of environmentally-friendly, energy-saving scrap commodities," the institute's president, Robin Wiener, said in a statement.   Chinese firms that used to import plastic waste from developed countries have now started investing in recycling operations in the United States, Minter said.   -- Nanlin Fang contributed to this report.   Can $1 billion help low-income Americans find jobs?
$1 billion a year for job training sure sounds like a lot of money. That's how much Congressional Republicans want to give states to help food stamp recipients find work. It's a huge increase over the $90 million in federal funding that currently flows to state training programs for those in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP, as food stamps is formally known.   The investment -- part of the House 2018 farm bill -- is historic, say GOP lawmakers.   "The farm bill also keeps faith with [the most vulnerable] families by not only maintaining SNAP benefits, but by offering SNAP beneficiaries a springboard out of poverty to a good paying job and opportunity for a better way of life for themselves and their families," House Agriculture Committee Chairman Michael Conaway, a Republican from Texas, said when he introduced the legislation earlier this month.   Consumer advocates and workforce development experts, however, counter that the funding is nowhere near enough to cover training for all the food stamp recipients who would be newly subject to work requirements under the farm bill, which is working its way through the House. They argue that states would not be able to set up quality programs that would prepare all these low-income Americans for good jobs and self-sufficient lives, which is the GOP's stated mission.   Currently, able-bodied adults ages 18 to 49 who don't have minor children must work or enroll in a training program for 20 hours a week to receive benefits for more than three months every three years. About 3.5 million of the roughly 41 million people who receive food stamps are subject to this provision.   The farm bill would broaden the number of people who have to work. It would require those in their 50s to have jobs or enroll in training and it would extend the mandate to parents with school-age children, starting in fiscal 2021. (Most working-age adults who are not disabled or pregnant must currently register for work, accept a job if offered or maintain their current position if they are employed.) This could double the number of people subject to work requirements, according to the Congressional Budget Office.   The legislation would also pump more money into training. Currently, every state is required to run an employment and training program, known as E&T, to help food stamp recipients search or prepare for jobs. The federal government now provides $90 million, allocated through a grant process, for these programs, but additional funding is available for states that provide extra services. The programs vary widely, with some states simply offering assistance in job hunting and others providing intensive employment training.   Under the bill, which faces a difficult path ahead in Congress, states would get $1 billion for training, but would have to guarantee a slot in their E&T programs for every recipient affected by the work mandate. This could nearly quadruple the total number of people enrolled in state training programs to 750,000 a month, according to a House Agriculture Committee aide.   The bill would triple the amount invested in each recipient, the aide said, noting this level of funding has never been authorized before.   "It's a step in the right direction," the aide said. "The status quo isn't working. This is a significant and historic investment to provide folks with opportunities."   Still, states would need even more money to offer meaningful training, advocates say.   The farm bill's funding amounts to just $30 per person per month, according to the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. That's only enough to pay for services, such as a self-administered employment assessment or the use of computers and copiers at a job center, for example.   "You can do just about nothing for $30," said LaDonna Pavetti, vice president for family income support policy at the center.   By contrast, the work programs for another federal safety net initiative, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or TANF, spends $414 per person per month in the typical state. And more intensive training efforts that have proven effective at raising people's incomes and putting them on a career path can cost between $8,300 and $14,000 per person. Some, for instance, prepare participants for specific fields, such as IT or health care, while others may concentrate on teaching skills such as time management, conflict resolution and goal setting.   "They focus on building skills and creating a set of support services around a person to get them to succeed," Pavetti said.   Also, most states are not equipped to ramp up their E&T programs to such a level, even though the farm bill gives them two years to do so, said Kermit Kabela, federal policy director at the National Skills Coalition, which focuses on workforce development. And if states stumble, some low-income Americans may not be able to meet their work requirements and could lose a vital federal safety net.   "It's not the worst idea that ever came out, but if you think about how this would actually play out on the ground, it raises a lot of questions," Kabela said. "You can't magically create good training programs overnight."  DACA students fear tuition ruling will force them to drop out of college
Gilbert Olmos should be excited that he's wrapping up his freshman year at South Mountain Community College and getting one step closer to his dream of becoming a registered nurse. But instead he's terrified his college education -- and his dream -- will come to an abrupt end.   Earlier this month, Arizona's Supreme Court ruled that students who have gained legal status under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program can no longer receive breaks on tuition from the state's colleges and universities. This means costs could almost triple for thousands of DACA status students in Arizona.   DACA has enabled nearly 689,000 young immigrants who were brought into the country as children to come out from the shadows and openly attend school and obtain work permits and driver's licenses without the fear of being deported.   With his DACA status, Olmos qualified for in-state tuition. But just days after the ruling, he received an email from his school saying his tuition rate might change. In-state tuition is $86 per credit hour at Maricopa Community Colleges. Out-of-state it's $327 per credit hour. For Olmos, this means his cost per semester will jump from a little more than $1,000 a semester to the out-of-state rate of more than $5,000.   "I fell apart as soon as I heard it," said Olmos, 19, who is pursing an associate's degree in applied science at South Mountain in Phoenix.   He was planning to get his associate's degree, then transfer to University of Arizona for his bachelor's before heading to nursing school.   "I'm a hard working student. I've been working retail jobs to pay my tuition myself," said Olmos, whose parents brought him to the United States from Mexico when he was a year-and-a-half old. "Realistically, with the new rates I might not be able to afford college."   If he does have to drop out, Olmos has a temporary backup plan. He's a certified phlebotomist, trained at drawing blood from patients. Olmos took the six-month course after graduating from high school.   "I would probably have to do this full-time until I figure things out with my education," he said.   There are currently 2,000 DACA status students enrolled in the Maricopa Community Colleges network, which includes 10 colleges in the Phoenix area.   "Right now we are telling them their tuition might be impacted, but we're not sure yet when it will go into effect," said Matthew Hasson, a spokesman for Maricopa Community Colleges.   He acknowledged the higher tuition rates could force students to drop out completely.   "These are wonderful people and some of our best and most hard working students," said Hasson. "We are working tirelessly to find some way to help them because we don't want them to leave. At the same time, we know we have to comply with the court ruling."   My dream has been 'jerked out of my hands'   Dreamers don't have permanent legal status, or a path to citizenship, so they aren't eligible for federal student aid either. Therefore, they must pay for college either on their own, through private donors or rely on scholarships.     That's how Ana Ascencio, 18, paid for her freshman year at Maricopa's GateWay Community College, where she's a political science major. She received a full scholarship from TheDream.US, a nationwide scholarship fund that helps DACA status immigrants attend one of 75 colleges in 15 states.   But now even her scholarship is in jeopardy.   One stipulation of TheDream.US's scholarships is that the student be eligible for in-state tuition rates at one of its partner schools.   Ascencio, who came to the US when she was four from Mexico and grew up in Arizona, was eligible for in-state tuition and the scholarship last year. But now she -- like the 150 other TheDream.US scholarship recipients in Arizona -- doesn't know if she'll be eligible for either.   "We are currently working with Maricopa County Community Colleges and Arizona State University to find an affordable path forward for our Arizona scholars to support them in completing [their] college degrees," said Candy Marshall, president of TheDream.US.   Ascencio wants to go to law school and become an immigration attorney, but everything seems uncertain.   "This court ruling is so surreal. My heart sank and I cried so much when I heard the news," she said. "My whole college education dream has been jerked out of my hands."   Vasthy Lamadrid feels the same way. She is a senior at Arizona State University and is majoring in political science and pursuing a teaching certificate. She has lined up a job that begins in the fall that counts toward her certification.   "I'm scared," she said. "If my tuition rates jumps and I can't pay the out-of-state rate, I can't continue with my teaching certification program in the fall."   Currently, the in-state tuition rate for undergraduates at the school is $10,792. Out-of-state students pay more than double that at $27,372.   Lamadrid said school administrators have said they want to help DACA students but she's aware that the school also has to comply with the ruling. She attended a meeting late Thursday with students and faculty where DACA students were told they should expect the new tuition rates to begin this summer.   Arizona State University did not respond to multiple requests for comment.   Lamadrid said she knows many other DACA students at Arizona State who have plans for postgraduate and other advanced degrees. "This ruling will put a halt to these goals," she said. "Some have already been accepted into those programs. Now they don't know what to do."  Treasury Secretary Mnuchin considering trip to China amid trade spat 
US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he is considering a trip to China, and is "cautiously optimistic" the United States can broker a trade deal with Beijing. "A trip is under consideration," Mnuchin told reporters at a press conference in Washington DC on Saturday. "I'm not going to make a comment on timing, nor do I have anything confirmed."   On the sidelines of the IMF World Bank spring meeting, Mnuchin met with Yi Gang, governor of the People's Bank of China, where they discussed China's central bank, not trade, the secretary said.   When asked if a trip to Beijing signaled a positive direction in talks, a senior Treasury official told reporters he would echo the secretary's message that talks between the two countries have been "encouraging."   The Chinese Commerce Ministry said Sunday that "China has received a message from the US about its willingness to hold bilateral trade talks in Beijing."   "China welcomes this move," the ministry said in a brief statement.   Tensions between the world's two biggest trading partners have rattled financial markets and elevated concerns of a trade war. The Trump administration has proposed imposing tariffs on as much as $150 billion worth of Chinese imports. Beijing has vowed to retaliate with its own measures against American soybeans to television makers.   Mnuchin said China has been "very helpful" in supporting US sanctions against North Korea, and welcomed the regime leader's announcement on Friday to suspend nuclear testing.   Still, he said the US would continue to exert its "maximum pressure" campaign until the rogue regime abandons its nuclear weapons program in a proven way.   -- Steven Jiang contributed to this report.  China 'welcomes' Mnuchin's offer to hold trade talks in Beijing
China said Sunday it would "welcome" direct trade talks with the United States in Beijing. "China has received a message from the US about its willingness to hold bilateral trade talks in Beijing," the Chinese Commerce Ministry said in a brief statement Sunday. "China welcomes this move."   The message comes one day after US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he would consider a trip to China, and is "cautiously optimistic" the United States could broker a trade deal with Beijing.   "A trip is under consideration," Mnuchin told reporters at a press conference in Washington DC on Saturday. "I'm not going to make a comment on timing, nor do I have anything confirmed."   On the sidelines of the IMF World Bank spring meeting, Mnuchin met with Yi Gang, governor of the People's Bank of China, where they discussed China's central bank, not trade, the secretary said.   When asked if a trip to Beijing signaled a positive direction in talks, a senior Treasury official told reporters he would echo the secretary's message that talks between the two countries have been "encouraging."   Tensions between the world's two biggest trading partners have rattled financial markets and elevated concerns of a trade war. The Trump administration has proposed imposing tariffs on as much as $150 billion worth of Chinese imports. Beijing has vowed to retaliate with its own measures against American soybeans to television makers.   Mnuchin said China has been "very helpful" in supporting US sanctions against North Korea, and welcomed the regime leader's announcement on Friday to suspend nuclear testing.   Still, he said the US would continue to exert its "maximum pressure" campaign until the rogue regime abandons its nuclear weapons program in a proven way.   -- Steven Jiang contributed to this report.  Mexico and EU reach new trade deal
Mexico and the European Union have reached a trade deal that virtually eliminates tariffs. The wide-reaching deal will simplify the customs process and eliminate tariffs for "practically all" goods traded between EU-member nations and Mexico, according to an announcement posted Saturday by the European Commission.   Mexico and the EU said last year they would accelerate their talks to update a trade agreement signed in 2000 as the United States threatened to slap tariffs on Mexican imports and withdraw from NAFTA.   Officials appeared to take a jab at US President Donald Trump's policies in statements praising the Mexico-EU deal as a defense of "open" and "rules-based" trade.   "Mexico and the EU worked together and reached a mutually beneficial outcome," said European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker. "We did it as partners who are willing to discuss, to defend their interests while at the same time being willing to compromise to meet each other's expectations."   The deal marks a move by Mexico to pivot away from its reliance on trade with the United States.   Officials also say the agreement opens the door for companies in the European Union or Mexico to bid for government contracts abroad. It also outlines labor, safety and environmental safety standards.   Additional details about the agreement will still need to be hashed out before it becomes official.  How these hurricane-ravaged states have avoided a housing disaster -- so far
After Hurricane Harvey soaked Houston with 51 inches of rain last August, Amir Befroui, a foreclosure defense specialist at Lone Star Legal Aid, started planning for a very busy spring. That's when the 90- and 180-day break on payments that mortgage companies typically give homeowners who have been hit by unexpected events like natural disasters would start to run out.   But so far, few hurricane-related foreclosure cases have been coming across his desk.   "We are starting to see a trickle," Befroui says. "I suspect it's going to be a gradual increase. I don't think it's going to be a tidal wave like the one that happened after Ike."   According to real estate analytics firm Attom Data Solutions, foreclosure starts in hurricane-affected areas of Texas and Florida rose in the first quarter of 2018, but still remained below pre-hurricane levels.   In Houston, for example, foreclosure starts had been slightly elevated due to the oil price crash of 2015 and 2016. Not counting a dip at the end of 2017, the first quarter was as low as it's been in more than 12 years, with 1,184 foreclosure starts. That's a big difference from Hurricane Ike in late 2008, where the storm exacerbated a mounting economic crisis that spurred 7,280 foreclosure starts in just one quarter.   Even more encouraging, the number of people seriously delinquent on their loans in hurricane-affected areas of Texas and Florida continued to sink after spiking over the winter. Thousands of people were able to bring their mortgages current again after taking advantage of post-storm forbearances from their lenders.   Given how damaging foreclosures can be for property values, credit scores and community stability, it appears the Gulf Coast has managed to dodge a potential hurricane housing disaster. At least, so far.   Part of that is due to coordinated efforts by industry groups and consumer advocates who helped create better options for homeowners to modify their loans after the break on mortgage payments ends. But more importantly, reforms to mortgage policies following the financial crisis had already fostered a healthier housing market to begin with.   Homeowners went into last year's disasters in a better place financially than they were during Hurricanes Ike, which hit in 2008, Sandy in 2012, and even Katrina in 2005. The irresponsible lending practices of the late 1990s and 2000s had largely been ended by the Dodd-Frank Act and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which raised standards for mortgage underwriting and implemented protections for borrowers facing foreclosure.   "People who've gotten mortgages post-CFPB, they don't have loans for the most part that economically they could never have afforded," says Ira Rheingold, executive director of the National Association of Consumer Advocates.   Across the United States, the number of properties in active foreclosure fell in March to the lowest level since late 2006, according to the real estate data firm Black Knight.   But in the case of natural disasters, programs aimed at helping distressed homeowners aren't always helpful enough. Mortgage modification programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae, the Veterans Administration, and the Federal Housing Administration — which now back about 70% of the U.S. housing market — require lots of documentation that's hard to pull together if your home is literally underwater.   Homeowners were snarled in endless paperwork after Hurricane Sandy hit in 2012, with each government housing agency requiring different policies and homeowners owing balloon payments that came due immediately once the forbearance period ended.   So as the 2017 hurricane season got started in earnest, D.C.'s housing finance wonks came to government agencies with one fundamental ask: Design a uniform option that can give homeowners a break on their mortgages without getting them in trouble when the bills come due.   "We were unsuccessful during Sandy," says Meg Burns, a former Department of Housing and Urban Development official who now heads housing policy at the Financial Services Roundtable, which represents lenders and servicers. "That's what informed our thinking to get all of the government entities around the table to make some consistent policy."   Along with automatic forbearances for homeowners in hurricane-affected areas, Fannie, Freddie and the FHA came up with an option that allows borrowers to make the payments they skipped during the months after the disaster at the very end of the loan — without going through a modification that could force them to take on a higher interest rate.   "It's a different world now," says Sara Singhas, associate regulatory counsel at the Mortgage Bankers Association, referring to the recent departure from rock-bottom interest rates. "Especially for people who are performing on their loans, we wanted to make sure we don't put them into a worse financial position than they were prior to the disaster."   These provisions, however, are only temporary and will sunset if they aren't renewed. "I would feel a lot better if they codified what we did," says Peter Muriungi, head of mortgage servicing for Chase Bank, which had 450,000 customers affected by the 2017 storms.    On the ground, housing counselors say that lenders have been more willing to work with people who can prove they have been a victim of a hurricane. That kind of patience is not typically afforded to people facing foreclosure for economic reasons, such as spiking property taxes, which have become more of a problem in the Houston area in recent years.   "The large national servicers, once they get it into their head that this is a Harvey case, then it gets moved over to the disaster recovery center rather than the traditional foreclosure side," says Sherrie Young, executive director of the Credit Coalition in Houston.   But not everybody takes action in time to receive that kind of assistance, and not everybody qualifies when they do. For those who lost jobs as a consequence of the hurricanes or were already behind on their payments before disaster struck, options start to narrow.   That's why thousands of people are still facing the prospect of losing their homes, and many more could run into that situation as banks lose patience in the coming months. Aid groups worry about the people who haven't yet asked for help.   "I think the biggest problem lies with the folks who don't reach out," says Glenda Kizzee, a housing counselor at the Houston Area Urban League. "They're going to utilize whatever resources they have to rebuild the home, and sometimes miss the payment on the home, which is just going to make it worse. By that time, our resources are limited in what we can do."   The biggest headaches, counselors say, arise with smaller servicers that have fewer resources to work with homeowners in trouble.   Take Maurine Howard, whose stately home near Addicks and Barker reservoirs in Houston was inundated when the Army Corps of Engineers released the floodgates in order to avoid a breach. She paid off the three months of mortgage payments after her forbearance ended, but the mortgage company still bumped up her monthly payment from about $1,350 to $1,700.   Months of phone calls, she says, still haven't managed to fix the problem, while she racks up credit card debt to make fixes on the house.   "Through the process of Harvey, dealing with the mortgage company has been a nightmare," Howard says, amid stacks of paper laid out on a bed in one of the few undamaged rooms of the house. "It's never ending. You take two steps forward and five steps back."  Social Security, Medicare and taxes are on the mind of Arizona's senior voters
It's 11 a.m. on a Wednesday and the campaign office for Democratic congressional candidate Hiral Tipirneni in Sun City, Arizona, is filled with dozens of senior citizens making phone calls and logging minutes on their personal cell phones. Bobbie Kettles, 68, has been here almost every day, calling everyone on her list and explaining why they should vote for Tipirneni during this week's upcoming special election.   "My free time is pretty much 90% for the campaign," says Kettles, a member of the Sun City Democratic Club. "I thank God I'm retired now so I can do this."   On Tuesday, Tipirneni will face Debbie Lesko as each candidate vies for the Arizona's 8th congressional district seat previously held by Republican Trent Franks, who resigned after he discussed fertility issues and surrogacy with two of his campaign aids.   Even though Trump won the district by 21 percentage points in the 2016 presidential election and Lesko is a strong favorite, Democrats here still think they stand a chance.   They fear the more than trillion-dollar deficits that Trump's tax bill is expected to create over the next 10 years will mean cuts to entitlement spending -- particularly Social Security and Medicare -- and they want a candidate who will protect those benefits.   "I've paid in, so now that they're going to take that away as some kind of entitlement?" asks Kettles. "They took it out of my paycheck every month, it was a contract that I made with the government. That just really is not right."   Meanwhile, many of the Republicans who support Lesko point to her support of the Trump administration's recent tax reform, which they say has had a meaningful difference on the community and their own personal finances.   In Sun City, a 55 and older community of nearly 42,000 retirees, the stakes couldn't be higher.   Seniors are expected to make up the bulk of voters in this week's election and early voting numbers from the Arizona Secretary of Sate notes 54% of all votes cast are from people 65 and older.   That has the Republican and Democratic Clubs of Sun City working overtime.   The Democrats: Preserve our Social Security and Medicare   Vance Coleman, the head of Sun City's Democratic Club, has seen the group grow from 65 members to nearly 300 in the past year due in part to growing disenchantment with the Trump administration's stance on key issues.   "When I hear Lesko saying 'I support all of Trump's policies' that's what she stands for," says Coleman. "While Tipirneni is saying, 'Hey let's look out for Social Security, let's look out for the people. And we've got to be concerned about Medicare."   The Social Security Administration estimates Social Security's trust fund will run out by 2034 and will only be able to pay out 75% of promised benefits. Tipirneni wants to keep Social Security fully funded for seniors and future generations, as well as allow anyone to buy into Medicare, regardless of age.   "I feel that it is absolutely wrong to make hard working Americans pay for a tax bailout for wealthy corporations and individuals," said Tipirneni on her campaign's website. "I will fight any cuts to Social Security and Medicare."   She also wants to open Medicare up as a public option that competes with the private market. The hope is to keep Medicare funded beyond 2029, when the Social Security administration estimates the health care program will run dry. At that time, Medicare Part A, which covers the majority of Social Security recipients, would only be able to pay out 88% of promised benefits.   "I can't tell you how many people I know who are going on to Medicare now," said Eileen Fowles, 67, a member of the Sun City Democratic Club. "People are just turning 65. They've been in Sun City for quite a few years, and now they're getting into Medicare, and they're wondering what is this gonna really mean now?"   The Republicans: The tax credits are 'not crumbs'   Just down the road from Tipirneni's campaign office, members of the Sun City Republican Club are phone-banking at Lesko's campaign headquarters. Their group has held steady at about 75 members over the past year.   Lesko hasn't campaigned much on the issues of health care or entitlement reform, but her stance on taxes has appealed to many of the seniors in the Republican Club.   "I have never seen a tax I didn't want to cut and have a proud record of voting for common sense tax reforms," said Lesko according to her campaign website. "The newly passed tax reform package from Congress doesn't go far enough. We need a reformed tax code that allows citizens to fill out their tax returns on a postcard."   She says she would have voted for the Trump administration's tax bill because it has helped Arizona's businesses give employees bonuses.   "This tax change that was made by the administration, despite what some people will be saying, really affects the people down here, and I can see it when I do their tax returns," said Peter Lee, the treasurer of the Republican Club and a private accountant. "I can see it when people are looking for assistance and help. They say they got their extra $25 because they had this tax change."   Rita Hick, another member of the Republican Club, agrees. She takes issue with House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi's comments that the individual tax credits were mere "crumbs."   "It's not crumbs. If you're not making a whole lot of money, those crumbs are going to help you through the next week or the next month," she says.   Hick, 73, was in a car accident two years ago and uses a walker to get around. While it's difficult for her to travel to the campaign office, she has been working the phones from home.   She relies on both Medicare and Social Security, but she doesn't think those programs will be the first to be cut. And she's confident Lesko will win on Tuesday.   Regardless of who wins the special election on Tuesday, the candidate will have to run again in the primary in August, and then onto the general election in November.   At a meeting of the Democratic Club ahead of Tuesday's election, members are already talking about a game plan for November. "We've got big plans in the fall," said Kettles. "We got lots of seats that we're going to take."   But the Democrats have an uphill battle: They need 23 seats to flip the House.   The Republican Club's Lee feels confident, too.   When asked if the Republicans will be successful in November? "Oh, absolutely," said Lee. "And through 2020."  The EU has one week to avoid a trade fight with the US
Fears of a US-China trade war have overshadowed another major dispute that could escalate within days. Unless French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel are able to persuade President Donald Trump to change course during their visits with him this week, US tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from the EU will take effect on May 1.   After announcing the tariffs in early March, the United States gave a number of countries temporary exemptions that are now set to expire.   The European Union is seeking "unconditional, permanent exemptions," said Cecilia Malmström, the EU's top trade official at a press conference last week. Otherwise, there will be consequences that could reverberate around the world.   The European Union has already published a list of hundreds of American products that it could target if the US moves forward with its tariffs. The list runs to 10 pages and includes US cigarettes, sweetcorn, ovens, sailboats, lipstick and stainless steel sinks.   US exports worth €6.4 billion ($7.8 billion) are in the firing line. That's roughly equal to the value of steel and aluminum shipped each year from the European Union to the United States.   The worry is that it won't stop there. Trump has threatened to respond to any new EU trade barriers with a tax on vehicles made by European carmakers.   This risks an escalating tit-for-tat fight between Europe and America, who trade nearly €1.1 trillion ($1.3 trillion) in goods and services each year.   'A big deal'   Some experts say the chances of Trump granting the European Union a special exemption are slim.   It would be difficult to justify in this case, said Ross Denton, a partner and trade specialist at the law firm Baker McKenzie. That's because the United States said it introduced the tariffs because steel and aluminum imports created a risk to US national security.   "The more exemptions [the US] gives, the more it undermines its own case," said Denton. "Unless something gives, there will be tariffs on May 1 ... If the EU imposes those retaliatory tariffs, that's going to be a big deal."   Others are more hopeful that the two sides can reach a compromise, especially because of Macron's efforts to form a close relationship with Trump .   "Eyes will be especially on talks with Macron, who has built up the strongest relationship of all European leaders with Trump," noted Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg bank.  Women could boost Asian economies by $4.5 trillion
Hiring more women could supercharge Asia's economies. A report published Tuesday by McKinsey Global Institute estimates that economies in the Asia-Pacific region could boost their collective GDP by $4.5 trillion by 2025 if they improve gender equality.   McKinsey says Asia-Pacific is "arguably the most dynamic region in the world" but women in many countries there face vastly unequal treatment at work and in society compared with men.   Some of the biggest gender gaps are in Bangladesh and India, where concerns have been raised previously about the economic damage from the lack of women in the workforce.   Even well developed economies such as Japan and South Korea were both judged to have "extremely high" levels of gender inequality in job opportunities, according to the report.   McKinsey said that China, the region's biggest economy, has made strides by getting more women into its workforce but still suffers from not having enough in leadership positions. The report also praised countries including the Philippines, New Zealand and Singapore for achieving greater gender equality at work.   But more needs to be done. The study said that the biggest boost to economic growth would come from countries increasing the number of women in the workforce. The rest would come from boosting the number of hours women currently work and giving them more productive roles.   China, the world's second largest economy, has the most to gain from making changes to address gender inequality: as much as $2.6 trillion, according to McKinsey. Another big winner could be India, which could add as much as $770 billion in economic activity.   The report urges policymakers in the region to take steps that promote more female participation in the workforce. They include measures to change attitudes on the role of women in society and improving access to childcare.   "From an economic perspective, trying to grow without enabling the full potential of women is like fighting with one hand tied behind one's back," the report said.  Hospitals may soon have to post prices for patients online
Hospitals may soon have to post their standard prices for patients online, under a proposed rule unveiled Tuesday by the Trump administration. Also, the administration is seeking comments on how to stop so-called surprise billing -- when patients are charged after unknowingly being seen by out-of-network providers -- and how to give patients better information about the out-of-pocket costs they will face.   And officials are ramping up pressure on hospitals to give patients better access to their medical records electronically or face a penalty.   The proposed rule is the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services' latest effort to give patients more information about the cost of health care and about their own medical history so they can better direct their own care. The guidance -- part of the annual update to Medicare payment policies -- applies mainly to Medicare patients and providers, but officials expect it will influence practices across the nation's health care system. It would take effect in 2019.   The posted prices, however, may not reflect the actual amount most patients pay since insurers and the government negotiate different rates and often cover a major portion of the bill.   The initiative builds on the Obama administration's efforts to increase transparency and shift toward paying for the overall health care value of the services provided, rather than simply for the services rendered. Hospitals are already required to provide either a list of their standard charges or their policies for allowing the public to view the prices. Trump officials want hospitals to post this information on the Internet and make it available in a way that third-party app developers can access.   In addition, the agency said they were concerned about out-of-network bills, such as those for anesthesiologists and radiologists who work at in-network hospitals, and by facility and physician fees for emergency room visits that come as a surprise to patients.   The administration is also pressing providers to increase the sharing of information among hospitals so patients could see all their records, regardless of where they go for care. Currently, a hospital often gives patients access to their data through its own online portal.   "Our administration is serious about ensuring that when a patient leaves a hospital, they are able to get their medical information electronically," said Seema Verma, the agency's administrator.   The nearly 1,900-page proposed rule also continues President Donald Trump's mission to reduce regulations and paperwork. It eliminates several dozen quality measures that the agency called "duplicative, overly burdensome or out-of-date."  Mick Mulvaney wants to shut public out of CFPB's 'Yelp' of banks 
For years, the government has operated a database of complaints about banks, mortgage lenders and student-loan service providers. But you might not be able to look through it much longer. Mick Mulvaney, the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said Tuesday that he doesn't want to keep the contents of the database open to the general public.   "I don't see anything in here that says I have to run a Yelp for financial services sponsored by the federal government," Mulvaney said at a banking industry confidence, with a copy of the 2010 Dodd-Frank legislation that established the CFPB in hand.   The CFPB database contains hundreds of thousands of grievances against financial services companies.   Consumers can submit complaints about a financial product or service to the CFPB, which passes them on to the companies involved. The companies then have 15 days to respond.   Once a company replies or the 15-day period lapses, the complaints are published online in a public complaint database, excluding any personal or identifiable information.   Mulvaney said that he would keep the database running, as required by law, but was under no obligation to publicly post all the data collected.   Earlier this month, the CFPB put out a 90-day call for comment on how it handles consumer complaints and questions.   Financial firms have long complained about the CFPB database, which they say makes them look bad even in situations when they didn't do anything improper.   "Commenters have objected that the database may provide misleading or incomplete information to consumers because it does not indicate whether a complaint reflects dissatisfaction with legitimate terms of service, as opposed to actual wrongdoing," the Treasury Department said in a report released in June.   In the report, the department recommended that the data should only be visible to federal and state regulators.   Mulvaney's moves to remodel the CFPB database are only his latest attempts to change the agency's direction.   Under Mulvaney's leadership, the CFPB has dialed back many of the its enforcement efforts. The agency has revisited payday-loan rules and dropped lawsuits against payday lenders.   -- CNNMoney's Kathryn Vasel contributed to this report.  Seattle's proposed tax to fight homelessness may hit Amazon hardest
Seattle has a thriving economy and booming housing market, and is home to successful businesses like Amazon and Starbucks. But it also has a homeless crisis and an affordable housing problem. To help alleviate both, the Seattle City Council is weighing a proposal to impose a new tax on big businesses.   The proposed tax amounts to 26 cents per working hour per employee in Seattle. That works out to roughly $540 a year for every full-time employee.   Only businesses that generate at least $20 million of annual revenue in Seattle itself would be subject to the tax.   The legislation would affect less than 3% of employers in the city, or about 585 businesses, according to Councilmember M. Lorena Gonzalez, a co-sponsor of the legislation.   Last fall, the council rejected a similar "head" tax proposal that would have raised less money but would have affected more companies.   The proposed tax is expected to raise $75 million a year, three quarters of which would be used to build roughly 1,800 affordable housing units. The other quarter would be spent on emergency and shelter services for the homeless.   By 2021, the per-head tax would convert to a 0.7% payroll tax and still raise $75 million, according to materials from the Council.   Amazon could pay $20 million or more a year   The company that likely would owe the most under such a tax is Amazon, Seattle's largest private sector employer. It employs more than 45,000 people in the city. If the proposed tax goes into effect, Amazon could be subject to a head tax north of $20 million a year.   Amazon, which declined to comment on the proposal, notes that it already contributes economically in many ways to Seattle. For example, it will provide a permanent location for a shelter in one of its new office buildings by 2020. It would be run by the nonprofit Mary's Place, which already had temporary use of two vacant Amazon buildings to shelter the homeless since 2016.   Starbucks did not respond to a request for comment.   Prosperous big businesses can in turn generate a lot of economic activity and revenue for their host city. And they may donate goods, services or money to critical social causes.   But the co-sponsors of the bill note that a major cause of homelessness is the higher cost of housing that results when more workers move to a city for jobs that pay more than long-time residents have been earning. And the demand to build affordable housing doesn't keep pace.   "A progressive tax on businesses most benefiting from this growth is our best option because we already rely heavily upon regressive property and sales taxes that hit everyone equally," Councilmember Lisa Herbold said in a statement.   Property and sales taxes are the city's main source of revenue since Seattle does not have an income tax. Businesses there also pay a business and occupancy tax.   Critics of the Council proposal, however, say it's a tax on jobs that could curb growth.   While a head tax isn't unheard of, "they are rare, and for good reason: most cities recognize that it's not in the best interest to penalize employment," said Jared Wolczak, a senior policy analyst at the Tax Foundation.   Certainly a tax that is seen as too onerous could influence a company's behavior, noted Tax Policy Center researcher Richard Auxier. But it's also true that a company locates itself in a place for more reasons than taxes, Auxier added. For instance, a business has a better chance of prospering in a socially stable city with good infrastructure, good schools and an educated workforce.  HUD wants low-income families on housing assistance to pay more rent 
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson announced Wednesday a proposal that would increase rent payments for more than two million of the nation's poorest. The new low-income rent reform would require households that receive federal housing assistance to pay 35% of their gross income in rent, up from the current requirement of 30% of adjusted income. Also, it would triple the minimum monthly rent these families must pay -- from $50 to $150. Roughly 712,000 housing assistance recipients currently pay less than $150 a month.   The change would affect able-bodied, working age Americans who rely on HUD for rental assistance. These folks make up roughly half of the 4.7 million people who receive this federal housing help.   It would not have an impact on elderly or disabled residents for six years, after which time their maximum rent will rise to $50 a month. Currently, the amount seniors and the disabled pay varies based on the program they are in.   The proposal dubbed "The Making Affordable Housing Work Act" is a bill Congress would have to approve. HUD cannot unilaterally change the rent rules.   The overhaul would also allow housing authorities across the country to require residents to work. The move is in keeping with the Trump administration's efforts to mandate work for Americans who receive public assistance. President Donald Trump last week issued an executive order directing agencies to promote employment for those who receive government benefits. Already, federal agencies are instituting or expanding work requirements for those on Medicaid and food stamps.   Some recipients of housing assistance already have to work. Some 39 public housing agencies are currently in HUD's Moving to Work program, which allows them to impose work requirements.   "It is ironic that a man who used taxpayer dollars to buy a $30,000 dining room table for the federal agency he leads wants to raise rent on poor people," said Congressman Cedric L. Richmond, the Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, in a statement. "Secretary Carson's immoral, ill-advised proposal is the latest example of the Trump Administration's war on poor people," he added.   Carson said the proposal would help address rising costs of providing housing assistance, which he said currently helps only one in four families that qualify.   "These waiting lists mean families must wait for years," he said. "It's clear that from a budget perspective and from a human point of view, the current system is unsustainable."   Carson said the current rules are "too confusing, convoluted, and costly," but did not explain how creating two systems -- one for elderly and disabled residents, and one for able-bodied, working age residents -- would solve the problem.   The legislation also proposes evaluating residents' income once every three years, rather than annually, which "would substantially ease the administrative burden."  Indians flock to America's 'golden visa' as H-1B route closes
Facing a crackdown on their favorite visa to enter the United States, hundreds of wealthy Indians are turning to another program that fast tracks immigrants to a green card. Applications from India for EB-5 visas -- which give immigrants a green card if they invest $500,000 and create 10 jobs in the United States -- have surged in recent months.   The US government issued 174 such visas to Indians in the year ended September 2017, an increase of about 17% over the previous year, according to State Department data.   Interest has taken off since then. In October and November, the United States received another 307 applications from India for what is often referred to as the "golden visa."   Indian demand for EB-5 visas has "really become explosive in the past 12 months," Neil Weinrib, an immigration lawyer based in New York, told CNNMoney.   Reacting to the H-1B crackdown   The spike comes as the US government makes it harder to get H-1B visas, which allow skilled foreign workers to be employed in the United States. More than 70% of H-1B visas have been awarded to Indians in recent years.   President Donald Trump has repeatedly criticized the program for flooding the United States with cheaper foreign workers and taking jobs away from Americans, particularly in the tech sector.   Changes to the program -- like greater scrutiny of applications and a possible shortening of the three-year visa period -- threaten big Indian outsourcing firms such as Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys (INFY) and Wipro (WIT), which hire and send thousand of tech workers to companies in Silicon Valley. Those companies are now dialing back H-1B applications and hiring more Americans.    The Trump administration is also looking to reverse a rule allowing spouses of H-1B holders to work in the United States, putting further pressure on the program.     "[There have] been a lot of changes with the H-1B visa program ... a lot of [Indians] are considering the EB-5," said Preeya Malik, co-founder of Dubai-based consultancy Step America.   Malik's co-founder, Shai Zamanian, said roughly one in four of Step America's current Indian clients have received or applied for the H-1B but want to apply for the EB-5.   The company has also seen a 200% increase in inquiries about EB-5 from prospective Indian clients in the last six months, he added.    "There is a general understanding that the doors of migration to the US are slowly closing," Zamanian said. "H-1B aside, because there's an understanding that if they don't get in now they might not get in next year, we are seeing an uptick."   'Buy American, Hire American'   The EB-5 program, with its investment threshold and emphasis on job creation, aligns with Trump's exhortation to "Buy American, Hire American."   "The current administration is certainly in favor of EB-5," said Andrew Graves, head of business development at the US Immigration Fund. "The government likes this type of immigrant -- sophisticated, wealthy and who are going to come in and add value to US society," he added.   The fund, which connects EB-5 visa applicants to US investment projects, has been expanding its India business with new offices in New Delhi and Mumbai. Graves expects the number of Indian applications at least to double every year for the next several years, overtaking countries like South Korea, Vietnam and Brazil.   China remains the biggest market by far for the visa, but it has been losing its luster.   The country accounts for thousands of EB-5 applicants every year -- more than 75% of roughly 10,000 visas awarded -- but demand there is now slipping because the backlog of applications means Chinese investors now have to wait at least 10 years for a green card.   Applications from countries that account for more than 7% of the total EB-5 visas available are put on a waitlist.   "A severe slowdown in the China market has brought more EB-5 practitioners to India," said Brian Ostar, head of global operations at EB5 Capital, which matches investors with opportunities. The long wait times for other visas have made the $500,000 investment the "quickest and most affordable option for many Indians," he added.   Still, the program is controversial. Critics argue that too much of the money goes to wealthy urban areas. Companies aren't required to disclose much about how they spend the funds, which can lead to abuse and fraud. Some lawmakers say the program effectively sells citizenship to wealthy immigrants.   'This is the right time'    Abhiram Satyadev is one Indian who has taken the investment route. He moved to the United States in 2011 to study for a masters. After graduating in 2013, he wanted to settle in the country but felt the H-1B program was too restrictive.   So with help from his father -- an entrepreneur based in Bangalore -- he invested in a real estate project in Baltimore through EB5 Capital. He applied for an EB-5 visa in 2015, while working on an H-1B, and got his green card in 2017.     "Having an H-1B is not a solution, it's more like a band aid," Satyadev told CNNMoney. "If you want to stay here then eventually people will want to ... get a green card, and if they have the money, I think this is a good program."   Satyadev, 28, now works at a government-run water treatment plant called DC Water, a job he says he wasn't eligible for without a green card.   "I really wanted to stay here, if there was no EB-5 process then I would probably be struggling right now," he said.   His advice to others considering the program? Get in now.   "This is the right time," he said, pointing to calls by the Department of Homeland Security that the minimum investment threshold should be increased.   "You don't want to wait too long because policies can change anytime."   -- Edwin Thomas contributed to this report  Looking for a job? New hires are getting paid 5% more than they were a year ago
It's a great time to jump into the job market. Wages for new workers in the United States were 5.2% higher in March than a year ago, according to private-sector payroll data provided to CNNMoney by ADP.   Pay is growing faster for new hires than for people staying put at their jobs or switching to a different company. Overall pay grew 2.9%.   For recent graduates landing a job for the first time or workers re-entering the market after time away, wages rose in every sector of the economy. The strongest growth was in the information and construction industries, ADP found.   Wages grew 7.6% for people who landed a job in the information industry — media, television, data processing, telecommunications and non-internet publishing jobs. And pay for new hires in construction climbed 6.8%.   Although the information sector typically seeks white-collar workers and construction relies on blue-collar, the two share a common feature: Both are hungry for skilled workers.   The labor market is short of talent, and employers are willing to pay a premium for qualified workers, explained Ahu Yildirmaz, head of the ADP Research Institute.   ADP's data reflects a tightening labor market and a country close to what economists consider full employment.   Unemployment is 4.1%, the lowest in 18 years. 6.1 million jobs were unfilled at the end of February, a fraction under last year's record high, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.   Employers of all sizes are struggling to fill empty slots. To retain workers and fill new jobs, companies are dishing out one-time bonuses, pay raises and sweeter benefits.   "More companies are offering out-of-the-box benefits that have been traditionally reserved for Silicon Valley companies," said Jason Guggisberg, a regional vice president at the employment services firm Adecco USA. Employers are also widening their candidate pools and loosening requirements, he said.   The tight market still pays off for employees who switch jobs, ADP found.   One in five private-sector employees switched last year, and wages for job-hoppers climbed 4.4% in March compared with a year earlier.   Wages for employees who changed jobs on the West Coast jumped 8.2% from a year earlier, compared with 1.9% for people who switched in the Midwest and 3% in the South.  Trump says Mnuchin will visit China for trade talks 'in a few days'
President Donald Trump says he's sending some of his top economic advisers to China "in a few days" for talks on the simmering trade tensions between the world's two largest economies. Trump said Tuesday that the delegation will include Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.   Trade tensions have skyrocketed this year between the United States and China. The two sides have already imposed tariffs on some of each other's exports and are threatening to dramatically expand the measures to tens of billions of dollars of other goods.   The clash has fueled fears of a trade war and shaken financial markets, but Trump expressed optimism Tuesday about the planned talks. "I think we've got a very good chance of making a deal," he said.   He cautioned, though, that without an agreement, the US government will press ahead with planned tariffs on as much as $150 billion worth of Chinese products. China has warned it will respond to any US measures with sanctions of its own on American exports, including soybeans, cars and aircraft.   Officials haven't yet provided details on when exactly Mnuchin and others will travel to China or whom they will meet.   Mnuchin said Saturday that a trip to China was "under consideration" and that he was "cautiously optimistic" that the US government can broker a trade deal with Beijing. The Chinese government said Sunday that it welcomes Washington's "willingness to hold bilateral trade talks."   The Chinese Commerce Ministry didn't immediately respond to a request for comment Wednesday following Trump's comments about the imminent visit.   Mnuchin has previously discussed the trade tensions between the two countries with Chinese President Xi Jinping's top economic adviser, Liu He.   Xi pledged in a speech earlier this month that China would make a number of changes that would address some of the grievances the US government has raised about Chinese trade and investment policies.   Many of those moves were ones China had already promised in some form, though. And experts say it will be tough to negotiate a deal that tackles the thornier economic issues between the two countries, such how China gets its hands on American technology.   -- Kevin Liptak, Donna Borak, Serenitie Wang and Steve Brusk contributed to this report.  The case for raising the minimum wage keeps getting stronger 
It's been too cold to campaign in frozen North Dakota. But as spring has crept across the state, an unusual ballot initiative is starting to emerge: One that would more than double the minimum wage, from $7.25 to $15 an hour by 2021. "The places we can gather signatures the best are at the parades and the waiting lines at the outhouses," says Scott Nodland, a citizen activist leading the effort. "We expect that now that the snow just melted and temperatures hit the high 50s, we can begin to do something."   It's an unusual platform for the deep red state, which voted 63% for President Trump in 2016.   But support for higher minimum wages has transcended partisan politics before. A wave of purple states — including Colorado, Arizona, and Maine — voted in wage hikes last election cycle.   Raising the minimum wage has been hotly debated in cities and states for years. Supporters argue that it's a remedy for widening wage inequality and will boost consumer spending, while opponents counter that it could reduce opportunities for employment, particularly for teenagers and others looking for entry level or low-skilled jobs.   Now, another batch of proposed wage hikes is headed for ballots in 2018, with initiatives underway in Massachusetts, Missouri, Michigan, Washington, and Washington D.C. And this time, as research on earlier minimum wage hikes piles up, the impact on workers is starting to become more clear.   The outlook? While some jobs could be lost as a consequence of more ambitious jumps in the minimum wage, the vast majority of workers who remain employed will enjoy higher pay and the economy overall isn't expected to suffer as a result.   For example, one study released last month by economists at the University of California, San Diego and the American Enterprise Institute estimated that minimum wage hikes of more than a dollar implemented between 2013 and 2016 — such as those in California, Washington, and New York — reduced employment among low-skilled workers by just under 1.5%. The impact on jobs in states with smaller wage increases was more variable, and occasionally there was a positive outcome, possibly because more people were drawn back into the labor market by the better pay.   However, research has also generally found that minimum wage hikes put more money in workers' pockets overall. Another study out last month from two Census Bureau economists found that, based on previous minimum wage increases, a 10% hike would raise income growth for workers in the bottom quarter of wage earners by about 10% — even including any possible reduction in hours.   Considering this new evidence, progressives have shifted from arguing that minimum wage hikes don't lead to job loss to arguing that even if they do, most workers are still better off.   A recent paper from the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute points out that people often switch jobs in low-wage industries, so even a 3% loss in jobs could just mean that all workers end up with 3% fewer total hours — but if they were paid 10% more for those hours, everybody comes out ahead.   Another strand of research from economists at the University of California, Irvine and the London School of Economics finds that higher minimum wages push employers to automate low-wage work — think ordering kiosks in fast-food restaurants — which opponents have used to slam minimum wage measures.   But here's another way of looking at it: America has seen low-productivity growth for the past decade, so investments in labor-saving technology should be welcome. A slew of reports, including one released this month by the Council on Foreign Relations, argues that displaced workers should then be trained for higher-value, better-paid jobs that robots have yet to learn how to do.   That's not the only way in which higher minimum wage could make the economy more efficient. As the market for low-wage labor has gotten more concentrated, some economists have theorized that large employers haven't needed to bargain as hard for workers, so they've kept pay artificially depressed.   "Employers have the power to set wages," says Ben Zipperer, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute. "And when it's not completely determined by perfect competition, they are going to set wages too low, and they will always complain that they can't find enough workers at the going wage."   Scott Nodland sees that phenomenon at play in North Dakota, which has an ultra low 2.6% unemployment rate and hourly wages that have fallen behind the national average, despite the abundance of highly paid oil and gas work.   "On the North Dakota job service site, there are 14,400 jobs available," Nodland, who has worked in many fields and refers to himself as an "entrepreneur," says. "And last year, there was a net loss of population in North Dakota. Obviously something is out of balance, and I'm suggesting it's wages."   It's not just North Dakota. Activists pushing minimum wage increases all over the country are doing so out of a sense that poor people haven't shared in what otherwise looks like a booming economy. Although wage growth did accelerate for lower income workers in 2015 and 2016, it hasn't been enough to make up decades of lost ground.   A national group called the Fairness Project, funded by a California healthcare union, is taking that message to several states this cycle with minimum wage campaigns as well as ballot initiatives that would expand Medicaid and require employers to offer paid sick leave. They've calculated, based on data assembled by EPI, that wage increases implemented since the beginning of 2017 have put an extra $4 billion in workers' pockets.   "While unemployment is low, we're seeing pretty stagnant wages," says Fairness Project director Jonathan Scheifer. "And the only places we've seen wage increases is where there's been an increase in the minimum wage."  UK economy grinds to a halt
The British economy has stalled. GDP grew by just 0.1% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the previous three months, representing the weakest expansion in more than five years.   Economists were expecting growth of 0.3%, after a 0.4% expansion in the fourth quarter of 2017.   Cold weather was partly to blame, but the Office of National Statistics said the effect of snow on retail sales and construction was "generally small" and there was very little impact on other areas of the economy.   With key policy questions unanswered and time ticking down, economists said uncertainty over Britain's exit from the European Union in March 2019 and pressure on wages had harmed growth.   "The squeeze on real pay has held back household spending, and businesses have been grappling with ongoing uncertainty over Brexit," said Alpesh Paleja, principal economist at the Confederation of British Industry.   Growth was also hit by a sharp decline in construction. The real estate industry has been hurt by rises in property taxes and Brexit, with potential buyers putting their plans on hold because of the economic uncertainty.   The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) said earlier this month that weakness in London's housing market had caused its UK house price indicator to hit a five-year low. The commercial property market has slumped.   Rob Kent-Smith, a statistician at the Office for National Statistics, said that weaker manufacturing growth and subdued activity in the retail, hospitality and entertainment sectors had also contributed to weak economic growth.   The pound slumped in response, falling 0.7% to $1.38, as the weak data undermines the case for another rise in UK interest rates any time soon.   "The downside surprise in GDP figures is probably the final nail in the coffin for the chance of an interest rate hike in May," said Paul Hollingsworth, senior UK economist at Capital Economics.   Ivan Petrella, an associate professor at the University of Warwick and former economist at the Bank of England, said the GDP reading is "clearly not a blip."   "This number confirms a trend started last year of rather weak growth, which was in contrast with what was happening in other key markets," he said. "Uncertainty is going to stay there for the year to come and possibly even after the United Kingdom's formal exit from the European Union."   Companies are still in the dark about Britain's future relationship with the European Union, its biggest trading partner, and many have delayed investments as a result. The UK economy is growing slower than Europe, and the country has slipped from fifth to sixth in the ranking of largest global economies.   British households have been suffering as a result of the slowdown. Real wages, which take rising prices into account, declined for a year before finally increasing in the three months to February.   Retailers have been punished. The electronics chain Maplin has collapsed, and around 78,000 retail jobs have disappeared since Brexit.   Data released Friday show the number of people declaring themselves insolvent hit the highest level in over five years during the first quarter.   "The human cost of its slowdown is getting more acute by the day," said Brian Johnson, an insolvency partner at HW Fisher & Company. "The fragility of Britain's recovery has been laid bare."   Still, unemployment remains at the lowest in decades and inflation has started to drop after hitting 3.1% last year.   "Today's data reflects some impact from the exceptional weather that we experienced last month, but our economy is strong and we have made significant progress," UK treasury chief Philip Hammond said in a statement.   "Our economy has grown every year since 2010 and is set to keep growing," he added.   With just 11 months to go before Brexit, investors are hoping for progress in another round of negotiations scheduled for next week.  Europe ready to hit back if Trump presses ahead with tariffs
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is making one final attempt to convince President Donald Trump to exempt the European Union from new US tariffs. The leader of Europe's largest economy will lobby Trump for a reprieve during a brief working stop at the White House on Friday. The same appeal was made earlier this week by French President Emmanuel Macron, who failed to secure concessions on trade during a high profile visit and state dinner.   Observers say there is little chance of a breakthrough before tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from the EU take effect on May 1. After announcing the tariffs in early March, the United States granted a number of temporary exemptions, including to the European Union.   Unless the exemption is extended, or made permanent, the tariffs could spark a new trade fight between Europe and America, hurting business, the economy and jobs.   "We continue to be in constant contact with the US administration," a spokesperson for the European Commission said this week. "We expect a permanent and unconditional exemption from the US tariffs."   If it doesn't get want it wants, the European Union stands ready to retaliate. It has already published a list of hundreds of American products that it could target if Trump moves forward with the tariffs. The list runs to 10 pages and includes US cigarettes, sweetcorn, ovens, sailboats, lipstick and stainless steel sinks.   The response from Europe could come within days.   "Our expectation remains to be exempted, but we are ready if necessary," said the Commission spokesperson.   US exports worth €6.4 billion ($7.8 billion) are in the firing line. That's roughly equal to the value of steel and aluminum shipped each year from the European Union to the United States.   The worry is that the spat won't stop there. Trump has threatened to respond to any new EU trade barriers with a tax on vehicles made by European carmakers.   A personal appeal from Merkel, a veteran politician with more than a decade of experience on the world stage, is now seen as Europe's best chance to win a reprieve. But most analysts expect Trump to be unmoved.   "Trump has shown little inclination to change his mind on major campaign promises, especially on national security and trade," Jörn Fleck, associate director in the Atlantic Council's Future Europe Initiative, wrote on Thursday.   The American president has long been critical of Germany when it comes to trade, especially where it concerns the trade deficit with its ally.   "We have a MASSIVE trade deficit with Germany, plus they pay FAR LESS than they should on NATO & military," Trump tweeted last year. "Very bad for U.S. This will change."  American workers who lose jobs in a trade war won't get much help
Earlier this month, news came out that 50 Tampa Bay Times employees would face a fate typically reserved for factory workers and steel mill operators: Losing their jobs in a trade dispute. Tariffs the United States imposed on softwood lumber from Canada had raised the paper's newsprint costs by some $3 million a year, the publisher said, and the business' already thin margins couldn't absorb that.   Normally, when a job is outsourced or terminated as a result of import competition, workers get some extra help. On top of unemployment insurance, they are also eligible for something called Trade Adjustment Assistance, an approximately $800 million a year program that provides cash and covers tuition for retraining programs to help people get back on their feet.   But the 56-year-old program doesn't cover people who lose jobs in later phases of trade disputes. The essential requirement for eligibility is that the job was lost to "foreign competition." Jobs lost due to tariffs actually levied by the United States -- which can raise domestic prices and provoke retaliatory measures from abroad -- don't qualify.   And the new tariffs promised by the Trump administration could hurt a lot of jobs. Trump announced earlier this year he would crack down on what he describes as unfair trade practices, pledging that imported steel would be taxed at 25%, and foreign aluminum at 10%. He also threatened to impose new tariffs on $150 billion of Chinese goods — with Beijing promising to push back on hundreds of US products.   Europe ready to hit back if Trump presses ahead with tariffs   Job losses in the United States could number from 25,000 to 150,000 jobs in industries that use steel, ranging from aerospace manufacturing to oil drilling, according to analyses from Moody's Analytics and the Economic Outlook Group. Overall, the loss of jobs will likely be on the lower end of the range, since Canada, Mexico, and South Korea have received waivers from the new tariffs.   But those estimates don't include the potential impact of retaliatory duties threatened by China on mostly agricultural goods. And Europe says it's ready to hit back if the Trump administration doesn't exempt it from the new tariffs starting May 1. The New York Federal Reserve estimated last week that the trade actions that ultimately go into effect would probably cost more jobs than they would save.   So far, there have been thousands of requests for exclusions from the steel tariffs from US-based companies that say making their raw material more expensive to import could force them to cut employees. For example, a producer of railway steel called Evraz, Inc. warned that it would have to lay off over 400 workers in Portland, Oregon if it didn't get an exemption. And those workers would get no help from the government, beyond unemployment insurance.   That discrepancy between those who receive special assistance and those who don't has long fueled calls for a more comprehensive system to help workers who are out of a job because of the way the economy is changing.   "It further underscores the reality that this program doesn't make a lot of sense," says Edward Alden, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. "Why should a steelworker who loses their job as a result of Chinese imports be treated more favorably than a steel-using worker who loses their job because of an import tariff?"   Alden wrote a book on the subject entitled Failure to Adjust, discussing how the US fell behind in developing globally competitive industries and helping workers prepare for the jobs of the future. For example, in 2015 the United States spent less as a percentage of GDP than any other developed country on "active labor management" policies like training workers and connecting them with employment, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.   A more expansive program might have even reached more steelworkers, most of whom didn't lose their jobs to unfair Chinese import competition, but rather increasing efficiency in their own plants, according to a 2015 study by economists at Duke and Princeton. The steel industry shed 75% of its workforce between 1962 and 2005 while keeping production fairly constant, largely as a result of highly productive mini-mill technology.   There have been a few proposals to help workers adapt to a changing economy, such as a San Francisco politician's idea to tax robots and use the proceeds to retrain workers. But on the federal level, the Trump administration has proposed spending less money on economic development and worker training programs, not more.   Current trade adjustment programs don't work perfectly. Government Accountability Office reports going back to 2001 document difficulties in delivering assistance, and beneficiaries on average find jobs that pay less than the jobs they lost.   But those reports also say a major problem is too few resources  — for scenarios including when a worker needs to pick up and move to a new job, for example, or for free education available to people before their factory shuts down. Instead, help usually comes too little, too late.   And in the case of workers like those out of their jobs at the Tampa Bay Times, there's nothing at all.  Mnuchin not worried about China retaliating on trade by dumping US Treasuries
China hasn't ruled out using its status as America's biggest foreign creditor as leverage in the fight over trade. But Steven Mnuchin isn't concerned. "Plenty of people can buy our Treasuries," the US Treasury secretary said in an interview with CNN's Cristina Alesci on Monday at the Milken Institute's annual conference.   Treasury securities are "among the most liquid in the world," he said, adding that the market for US bonds is "robust."   In March, the Chinese ambassador to the United States kept open the option of scaling back purchases of US debt in the event of a trade war.   "We are looking at all options," Cui Tiankai told Bloomberg Television at the time. China is the largest foreign US bond holder with $1.18 trillion in holdings.   It's not certain that China would actually dump US debt. Experts say such a move could bring unwanted consequences for the Chinese government, including reducing the value of the bonds it holds on to and even destabilizing its currency against the dollar.   However, the issue could come up later this week when Mnuchin heads to Beijing for trade meetings with government officials.   He'll be joined by a number of top US officials, including Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, White House trade adviser Peter Navarro and White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow, the White House said Monday.   Mnuchin said that the US team plans to address the trade deficit, as well as a number of issues related to intellectual property theft. But he avoided showing his hand ahead of the negotiations.   "I'm going over there for frank discussions and I hope we can make serious progress," he told CNN.     In the past, President Donald Trump has said that trade wars are "good, and easy to win." But Mnuchin conceded on Monday that trade disputes are "not easy."   "Any negotiation isn't easy," he added.   The US has threatened to place tariffs of up to $150 billion on Chinese goods if the two countries can't cut a deal.   China has promised to retaliate if such tariffs go into effect. The country has said it would target US products such as pork and soybeans, which would hurt agriculture in many US states that voted for Trump.   Mnuchin said the US would support American farmers if necessary.   "If China unfairly targets our agricultural community or other areas, we will defend our interests," he said. "We will make sure that they are not unfairly hurt in these trade disputes."   In the meantime, Mnuchin said he does not feel that he needs to return from his trip to China with an agreement in hand.   "I don't feel any pressure whatsoever," he said. "If I'm going to bring a deal home, it's only going to be a good deal."  Nursing schools are rejecting thousands of applicants -- in the middle of a nursing shortage
There's an acute nursing shortage in the United States, but schools are turning away thousands of qualified applicants as they struggle to expand class size and hire more teachers for nursing programs. In America, experienced nurses are retiring at a rapid clip, and there aren't enough new nursing graduates to replenish the workforce. At the same time, the nation's population is aging and requires more care.   "It's really a catch 22 situation," said Robert Rosseter, spokesman for the American Association of Colleges of Nursing.   "There's tremendous demand from hospitals and clinics to hire more nurses," he said. "There's tremendous demand from students who want to enter nursing programs, but schools are tapped out."   There are currently about three million nurses in the United States. The country will need to produce more than one million new registered nurses by 2022 to fulfill its health care needs, according to the American Nurses Association estimates.   That's a problem.   In 2017, nursing schools turned away more than 56,000 qualified applicants from undergraduate nursing programs. Going back a decade, nursing schools have annually rejected around 30,000 applicants who met admissions requirements, according to the American Association of Colleges of Nursing.   "Some of these applicants graduated high school top of their class with a 3.5 GPA or higher," said Rosseter. "But the competition to get into a nursing school right now is so intense."   Because of the lack of openings, nursing programs across the board -- in community colleges to undergraduate and graduate schools -- are rejecting students in droves.   Erica Kay is making her third attempt to get into a nursing program offered in a community college near where she lives in southern California.   Kay, 35, already is a certified surgical technician and a certified medical assistant.   "I've been working in health care since I was 21. This is my passion," she said. "I know I will be a great nurse and I'm studying very hard to get accepted into a program," she said   She's taken the standardized admissions test for nursing schools twice and applied to three community colleges. She didn't get in.   "One school responded in a letter they had 343 applications and only accepted 60 students," she said. Another school had 60 slots for 262 applications.   "Some programs won't even consider you if you score less than 80% even if you meet all other criteria," she said. Kay is retaking the nearly four-hour-long test next month, hoping to better her score.   "It shocks and upsets me that there are so many hurdles to get into nursing school when we have a nursing shortage," said Kay. "But I am going to keep trying."   Jane Kirschling, dean of the University of Maryland School of Nursing in Baltimore, said her school admits new students in the undergraduate program twice a year.   "We're averaging 200 applications each time for 55 slots," she said. "So we're turning away one student for every student we accept."   She said the nursing profession has surged in popularity for a few reasons. "Nursing offers an entry-level living wage with which you can support a family," said Kirschling.   There's built-in flexibility and mobility. "You can work three 12-hour shifts and get four days off," she said. And nurses aren't locked into a specific location, employer or specialty for the rest of their lives. "There's tremendous growth opportunity," said Kirschling.   But Kirschling said increasing school class size to accommodate more students isn't easy or practical.   For one thing, nursing schools are struggling to hire more qualified teachers. "The annual national faculty vacancy rate in nursing programs is over 7%. That's pretty high," said Rosseter. "It's about two teachers per nursing school or a shortage of 1,565 teachers."   Better pay for working nurses is luring current and potential nurse educators away from teaching. The average salary of a nurse practitioner is $97,000 compared to an average salary of $78,575 for a nursing school assistant professor, according to the American Association of Nurse Practitioners.   Mott Community College in Flint, Michigan, last year reduced its new admissions from 80 to 64 students accepted twice a year into its two-year associate degree in nursing program.   The move was partly in response to a decision by the Michigan Board of Nursing to shrink the nursing student-to-faculty ratio for clinical training in hospitals and clinics. This was aimed at improving safety and avoiding crowded clinical settings.     "It changed from 10 students for one educator to 8 students. So we had to adjust our class size accordingly," said Rebecca Myszenski, dean of the division of Health Sciences at Mott Community College.   Kirschling's school in Baltimore has made similar adjustments. "We used to send eight to 10 nursing students per instructor to hospitals for clinical rotations. Now it's six students," she said.   Pediatrics, obstetrics and mental health are the areas where nursing students have the most unmet demand for clinical training," said Kirschling. "As we try to increase the number of nursing students, these three areas will be bottlenecks for nursing programs."   Rosseter agrees that class size presents another challenge for nursing schools. "There's not enough available clinical space to train students," he said.   Despite the constraints, nursing programs are thinking of ways to accommodate more students.   "We're expanding our program to new campuses, we're looking at new models of partnering with hospitals to allow [their] nursing staff to [be able] to teach," said Tara Hulsey, dean of West Virginia University's School of Nursing.   For example, Anne Arundel Community College in Arnold, Maryland, offers an accelerated associate nursing program that allows qualified paramedics or veterans to be admitted straight into the second year of the two-year program.   In Flint, Mott Community College has partnered with University of Michigan's accelerated 16-month undergraduate program designed for veterans with medical experience who want to transition into a nursing career.   "These bridge programs could really help with the [nursing] shortage," said Myszenski. "You have to address the nursing shortage by thinking out of the box."  California ruling puts pressure on Uber, Lyft and other gig economy employers 
The California Supreme Court just changed the game in a big way for gig economy companies and the people who work for them. A ruling issued Monday will make it more difficult for employers in the state to treat their workers as independent contractors, who don't enjoy many of the rights employees do, such as a minimum wage, overtime pay, workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and paid sick leave. Independent contractors also pay their own expenses.   Many online labor platforms, such as Uber and Postmates, have said they consider the independent contractor relationship key to their business model since it would be much more expensive to provide benefits and rights to which an employee would be entitled.   The case that was before California's Supreme Court involved courier service Dynamex, which converted all its delivery drivers to independent contractors from employees in 2004. Some of its workers then sued, saying they should still be classified as employees in part because they worked solely for Dynamex, which exerted significant control over the assignments they took, their pay rates, their uniforms and other aspects of the job.   The workers won in lower courts. When Dynamex appealed, the state Supreme Court not only upheld the previous decisions, but also decided to adopt a standard similar to one currently used in a handful of states, such as Illinois and New Jersey, for determining whether a worker is a contractor or an employee.   It's called an "ABC test" and it lays out three requirements an employer must meet to prove their workers are independent contractors: One, that the contractor provides the service free from the company's control; two, that the service provided is outside the company's core business, such as a janitor at a law firm; and three, that the contractor is an independent professional engaged in providing their service to companies other than the one in question.   An Uber driver who has never driven passengers before and doesn't work for other ride-hailing services would therefore have a hard time qualifying as an independent contractor — unless Uber can prove it's not a transportation company at all, says Todd Lebowitz, a labor attorney at BakerHostetler.   "That may be the only thing that can get around an ABC test," says Lebowitz, noting that California's version is now the country's most strict. "If a ride-hailing service is a technology company, then they may still be able to meet that test. But it's going to be scrutinized a lot more closely now."   Uber spokesman Matthew Wing declined to comment on the case.   Labor advocates hailed the decision, saying that workers who claim they are misclassified as independent contractors have a much better case under the new standard, at least for claims under California's wage and hour laws. (The ruling does not change the definition of contractor for the purposes of federal taxes and other U.S. laws like those that govern union organizing.)   "This test expresses the essence of the employment relationship, and most on-demand companies will fail it," says Rebecca Smith, deputy director of the National Employment Law Project. "Most workers will win."   Not all online labor platforms treat their workers as contractors. Companies like the personal assistant service HelloAlfred and the staffing firm BlueCrew issue their workers W-2 tax forms, rather than the contractor's 1099.   But those that depend on the use of contractors could be forced to either offer their workers more freedom — by allowing them to set their own prices and other terms — or convert them into employees. The change will also have a large impact in traditional industries that have relied on independent contractors, such as trucking.   The case adds to a long running legal drama over the question of employee status, which weighs heavily on the future of online labor platforms. Cases alleging worker misclassification have cropped up across the country, with varying outcomes depending on state laws. Several lawsuits have been stalled pending a U.S. Supreme Court decision on whether it's legal to force workers to sign arbitration agreements that bar workers from joining together in class actions, which are one of the only ways to force a company to change its practices.   Arbitration agreements, however, don't protect companies from audits by state agencies. Under the new standard, California regulators may go after companies for breaking the law without workers having to sue at all.   In response to lobbying from gig economy companies, more than 40 states have changed their labor laws in recent years to exempt ride-hailing services from the tighter regulations, according to NELP. This year, a handful of right leaning states also passed broader exemptions for all kinds of online labor platforms.   A movement is also afoot to change the law in California, where gig platform companies have said they would like to be able to offer their workers some employee-like benefits — such as health care and training opportunities — while maintaining their independent contractor status.   In response, Silicon Valley Assemblymember Evan Low introduced a bill that would set up shared benefits plans to which online platform companies could contribute — and in doing so, create a new employment classification for "marketplace contractors" who would not be subject to all the laws governing regular employees.   "Our regulations have not kept up with the digital marketplace and the economy," Low said. "So how do we focus on that consumer protection, the employee and the worker, but also make sure it works for the innovation economy?"   The bill may face an uphill battle in the union-friendly Golden State, though. The California Labor Federation opposes the bill, saying in a letter that it "seeks to sever the employment relationship for an entire industry" and would "enrich some of the wealthiest companies in our state by shifting all the risk onto the backs of working people."  California ruling puts pressure on Uber, Lyft and other gig economy employers 
The California Supreme Court just changed the game in a big way for gig economy companies and the people who work for them. A ruling issued Monday will make it more difficult for employers in the state to treat their workers as independent contractors, who don't enjoy many of the rights employees do, such as a minimum wage, overtime pay, workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and paid sick leave. Independent contractors also pay their own expenses.   Many online labor platforms, such as Uber and Postmates, have said they consider the independent contractor relationship key to their business model since it would be much more expensive to provide benefits and rights to which an employee would be entitled.   The case that was before California's Supreme Court involved courier service Dynamex, which converted all its delivery drivers to independent contractors from employees in 2004. Some of its workers then sued, saying they should still be classified as employees in part because they worked solely for Dynamex, which exerted significant control over the assignments they took, their pay rates, their uniforms and other aspects of the job.   The workers won in lower courts. When Dynamex appealed, the state Supreme Court not only upheld the previous decisions, but also decided to adopt a standard similar to one currently used in a handful of states, such as Illinois and New Jersey, for determining whether a worker is a contractor or an employee.   It's called an "ABC test" and it lays out three requirements an employer must meet to prove their workers are independent contractors: One, that the contractor provides the service free from the company's control; two, that the service provided is outside the company's core business, such as a janitor at a law firm; and three, that the contractor is an independent professional engaged in providing their service to companies other than the one in question.   An Uber driver who has never driven passengers before and doesn't work for other ride-hailing services would therefore have a hard time qualifying as an independent contractor — unless Uber can prove it's not a transportation company at all, says Todd Lebowitz, a labor attorney at BakerHostetler.   "That may be the only thing that can get around an ABC test," says Lebowitz, noting that California's version is now the country's most strict. "If a ride-hailing service is a technology company, then they may still be able to meet that test. But it's going to be scrutinized a lot more closely now."   Uber spokesman Matthew Wing declined to comment on the case.   Labor advocates hailed the decision, saying that workers who claim they are misclassified as independent contractors have a much better case under the new standard, at least for claims under California's wage and hour laws. (The ruling does not change the definition of contractor for the purposes of federal taxes and other U.S. laws like those that govern union organizing.)   "This test expresses the essence of the employment relationship, and most on-demand companies will fail it," says Rebecca Smith, deputy director of the National Employment Law Project. "Most workers will win."   Not all online labor platforms treat their workers as contractors. Companies like the personal assistant service HelloAlfred and the staffing firm BlueCrew issue their workers W-2 tax forms, rather than the contractor's 1099.   But those that depend on the use of contractors could be forced to either offer their workers more freedom — by allowing them to set their own prices and other terms — or convert them into employees. The change will also have a large impact in traditional industries that have relied on independent contractors, such as trucking.   The case adds to a long running legal drama over the question of employee status, which weighs heavily on the future of online labor platforms. Cases alleging worker misclassification have cropped up across the country, with varying outcomes depending on state laws. Several lawsuits have been stalled pending a U.S. Supreme Court decision on whether it's legal to force workers to sign arbitration agreements that bar workers from joining together in class actions, which are one of the only ways to force a company to change its practices.   Arbitration agreements, however, don't protect companies from audits by state agencies. Under the new standard, California regulators may go after companies for breaking the law without workers having to sue at all.   In response to lobbying from gig economy companies, more than 40 states have changed their labor laws in recent years to exempt ride-hailing services from the tighter regulations, according to NELP. This year, a handful of right leaning states also passed broader exemptions for all kinds of online labor platforms.   A movement is also afoot to change the law in California, where gig platform companies have said they would like to be able to offer their workers some employee-like benefits — such as health care and training opportunities — while maintaining their independent contractor status.   In response, Silicon Valley Assemblymember Evan Low introduced a bill that would set up shared benefits plans to which online platform companies could contribute — and in doing so, create a new employment classification for "marketplace contractors" who would not be subject to all the laws governing regular employees.   "Our regulations have not kept up with the digital marketplace and the economy," Low said. "So how do we focus on that consumer protection, the employee and the worker, but also make sure it works for the innovation economy?"   The bill may face an uphill battle in the union-friendly Golden State, though. The California Labor Federation opposes the bill, saying in a letter that it "seeks to sever the employment relationship for an entire industry" and would "enrich some of the wealthiest companies in our state by shifting all the risk onto the backs of working people."  The US economy just hit a milestone
The slow but steady recovery from the Great Recession just hit a milestone: It's tied for the second-longest economic expansion in American history. The recession ended in June 2009, which means the recovery is 106 months old through April of this year. That matches the expansion from 1961 to 1969, an era of big government spending under President John F. Kennedy and then President Lyndon Johnson's Great Society.   Unlike the breathtaking growth of the 1960s, the current expansion won't set any records for speed. It took far longer than many hoped for unemployment to get back to healthy levels. Wages have only recently begun to accelerate meaningfully.   Yet the very fact that the economy didn't roar back to life from the financial crisis extended the life of the recovery. The slow speed prevented it from overheating.   "The silver lining is this very long economic expansion," said Moody's Analytics chief economist Mark Zandi. "We didn't experience the same boom-to-bust cycle that we had in the past."   Low and slow   Scarred by the 2008 meltdown, businesses and individuals were reluctant to take on risks during the early years of the recovery. Many were still working off the debt from the last boom.   "Everyone ran for the proverbial economic bunker, and it was hard to coax them back out," Zandi said. "People were shell-shocked."   The absence of explosive growth and problematic inflation meant the Federal Reserve didn't have to step in with aggressive rate hikes aimed at cooling the economy down. Low rates and steady growth allowed the stock market to quadruple from its March 2009 low.   Economists don't see a recession on the near horizon, meaning the recovery has a real shot at staying alive until July 2019, when it would surpass the 1991-2001 boom as the longest on record. That expansion lasted exactly 10 years and was powered by the rise of the internet.   "Absent a shock like a trade war, we're likely to become the longest expansion," said PNC chief economist Gus Faucher.   He noted that because growth has been mediocre, few of the boom-time excesses have built up in housing markets, corporate balance sheets or household credit card statements.   "This is an economy that has been growing steadily at an OK, not fantastic pace. Things are well balanced," Faucher said.   Just 13% of global fund managers polled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch in early April think a recession is likely in the near term.   Unemployment has steadily dropped to 4.1%, the lowest since 2000. That's down dramatically from a peak of 10% in 2009. Economists predict it could keep dropping, perhaps into the mid-3% range. That hasn't happened since 1969.     Distant threat   One reason growth is predicted to continue for now: Washington is borrowing heavily to spend more and tax less.   Republicans passed tax cuts for businesses and individuals late last year. Then lawmakers reached a bipartisan agreement this year to ramp up spending. That recipe, normally reserved for downturns, typically stimulates growth.   All that deficit-financed aid from Washington is juicing growth now, but it may also speed the demise of the recovery.   "It's laying the foundation for the next recession," Zandi said.   He predicted that the tax cuts and government spending will accelerate growth, increase inflation and eventually force the Fed to slam the brakes on the economy.   "By mid-2020, we will be most vulnerable to the next recession," Zandi said, pointing to the fading impact of government spending and tax cuts.   Hedge fund billionaire Ray Dalio recently estimated there's a 70% chance of a recession before the November 2020 presidential election.   Even if a recession isn't imminent, Wall Street is starting to think about the end of the business cycle.    Fifty-eight percent of the money managers polled by Bank of America think the stock market has already peaked or will later this year.   Morgan Stanley chief US equity strategist Michael Wilson warned in a report on Sunday that "2018 will mark an important cyclical top" for US and global stocks, led by a "deterioration" in the credit markets.   Like other economists, Zandi questioned the timing of the tax law and spending hikes given the health of the economy.   "It's almost like you read the economic textbook and did the opposite of what it said to do," Zandi said. "It's a real experiment — and in my view, it won't end up well."  NAFTA talks on 'thin ice' after two more weeks, top US negotiator says
Time is running out to reach a deal on NAFTA. America's top trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, warned Tuesday that failure to complete trade negotiations with Canada and Mexico in the next two weeks could put the agreement in jeopardy.   "I believe if we don't get it done in the next week or two, we'll be on thin ice," Lighthizer told an audience at the China Business Council conference in Washington, hosted by the US Chamber of Commerce.   The three countries are eager to reach an agreement in principle within the next two weeks to renew the 24-year-old pact. That would pave the way for a final deal to be signed before the Mexican presidential election July 1 and before the window closes for consideration in Congress this year.   Big Democratic gains in the midterm elections this fall could undermine President Trump's ability to get a new trade agreement approved.   "The new Congress will have its own priorities," said Lighthizer, the US trade representative. He suggested that if the makeup of Congress changes substantially, lawmakers may want to "try to open it up."   Also adding pressure on negotiators: The clock is winding down on Trump's fast-track negotiating authority, created under 2015 trade legislation.   That authority requires Congress to vote yes or no, without making changes, on trade deals struck by the administration. It runs through July 2021, but Congress could block an automatic renewal by this July.   The administration will still have to notify Congress of its plans to sign a trade deal within 90 days.   Lighthizer expressed optimism the administration will have the votes to pass a renegotiated deal, if it can be done quickly.   "My objective is going to be to get an agreement with overwhelming support," Lighthizer said. "I think it's gotta be a bipartisan vote. We want a big vote."  Why US-China trade talks will struggle to reach 'grand bargain' 
President Donald Trump's top advisers arrive in Beijing this week for talks on how to avoid a trade war between the world's two biggest economies. The United States and China have threatened recently to impose steep tariffs on tens of billions of dollars of each other's goods.   The US team, which includes Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, hopes to make enough progress in the negotiations on Thursday and Friday to dial down the tensions.   "I think we've got a very good chance of making a deal," Trump said last week when he announced the visit.   Not everyone agrees with him.   "I don't expect any grand bargains being struck," said Michael Camunez, CEO of consultancy Monarch Global Strategies and a former senior trade official under President Barack Obama.   According to Camunez, the US administration isn't projecting a coherent stance with a team of negotiators that includes trade hawks like Lighthizer and free trade advocates like Larry Kudlow, Trump's top economic adviser.   "There is no clear strategy that can be discerned," Camunez said.   Managing expectations   The Chinese government is already trying to reduce expectations for this week's talks.   Given the size and complexity of the trade relationship, "it's not realistic to expect to have all issues resolved through one consultation," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said Wednesday.   "As long as the US maintains its sincerity in preserving the overall stability of bilateral trade ties, and adopts an attitude of mutual respect, equal consultations and win-win cooperation, we believe our consultations are going to be constructive," she said.   The Trump administration wants China to buy more US exports in the hope of cutting America's $375 billion deficit in goods with its biggest trading partner. It's also pressing Beijing to move away from an industrial policy that critics say subsidizes Chinese companies on the global stage and pressures foreign rivals to hand over key technologies.     But the best the United States can hope for this week is a "short-term bargain," said Derek Scissors, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a Washington-based think tank.   That might include China giving more details about its plans to open up its auto sector and pledging to increase imports from the United States. Scissors said a "credible promise" from Beijing to buy an additional $50 billion of US goods each year would be considered a win by Trump's trade team, but he doesn't think that's likely to happen.     China is likely to find it hard to ramp up imports of American-made goods, experts say.   There just aren't many additional "big ticket" items China needs from the United States, said Pauline Loong, head of Hong Kong research firm Asia Analytica.   Chinese businesses want high-tech US products. But the Trump administration sent an alarming signal last month by banning Chinese smartphone maker ZTE (ZTCOF) from buying components from American companies for seven years.   Rather than buying more American goods in substantial amounts, China is more likely to offer the possibility of greater access for foreign companies to its huge markets, Loong said.   Xi's promises 'not enough'   Chinese President Xi Jinping promised in a speech last month that the country would do more to open up its economy to foreign companies and investors.   But at a rally in Michigan in Saturday, Trump said Xi's pledges were "not enough."   Experts say China's promises of greater access often turn out to be difficult for foreign companies to take advantage of because of delays or onerous requirements they need to meet.   Beijing "happily offers good intent," Loong said. "But what it has always been reluctant to offer is specifics."   Late last year, the government said it would allow foreign companies to control Chinese banks and investment firms for the first time, in theory making it easier for Wall Street to do business in the country.   But Lyndon Chao, a managing director at the Asia Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association, said many foreign investment firms may struggle to qualify because of the amount of assets they're required to hold in China.   American companies that already operate in China want the Trump administration to pressure Beijing to do more to stop theft of their intellectual property, counterfeiting and forced transfers of technology to Chinese firms, according to Jacob Parker, vice president of lobby group the US-China Business Council.   The issue has become a particular point of contention as China works to shift its economy from low-end manufacturing toward more high-tech industries.   Trump and his senior economic advisers have spoken out about the issues, citing them as a key reason for imposing tariffs. But Parker says business leaders worry that the administration's obsession with the trade deficit, which many economists say is misplaced, reduces the likelihood of improving conditions for American companies.   "We'd like to see the Trump administration clearly articulate what it wants China to do," he said.   -- Steven Jiang contributed to this report.  Paul Krugman: Tax cut turning out to be a 'nothing burger'
Paul Krugman thinks the Republican tax law is failing to stimulate economic growth as promised. "We should be seeing an investment boom or at least some indications of a planned increased investment," the Nobel Prize-winning economist told CNN correspondent Paula Newton on "Quest Means Business" on Wednesday. "We're just not seeing that."   In terms of business investment, Krugman said, it "looks like the tax cut is a nothing burger."   Republicans promised last year that lowering the corporate tax rate would encourage companies to invest more in new factories and equipment, which would create jobs and boost the economy.   But so far, many companies have used the money to reward shareholders.   One recent example is Apple (AAPL), which announced Tuesday that it will spend $100 billion more on stock buybacks. The company spent $22.8 billion buying back its own stock in the first three months of this year.   US companies have plowed more than $246 billion into stock buybacks this year, according to the research firm Birinyi Associates. That's up 31% from the same point last year. Cisco (CSCO) and Wells Fargo (WFC) alone have announced plans to repurchase more than $20 billion of stock each.   Krugman said he's "surprised at how little effect we're seeing on corporate spending."   Krugman, who is also a columnist for The New York Times, added that he was always skeptical that the new tax law would trigger the economic benefits touted by some lawmakers. But the results so far, he said, are "worse than the pessimists expected."   Wall Street usually loves buybacks because they provide persistent demand for stocks while inflating earnings per share. But Goldman Sachs (GS) expressed skepticism last week about companies focused on returning vast amounts of cash through buybacks and dividends instead of investing.   — CNN's Matt Egan contributed to this report.   Fed leaves rates unchanged and says inflation is moving higher
The Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged and signaled growing confidence that inflation is inching closer to its goal. The Fed unanimously agreed on Wednesday to keep rates unchanged following a two-day policy meeting in Washington.   Policy makers pointed to fewer Americans out of work and strong growth in business investment. They also said that inflation is moving closer to the Fed's 2% target. All are signs that the economy is still getting stronger.   "Risks to the economic outlook appear roughly balanced," the Fed said in its policy statement.   The federal funds rate, which helps determine rates for mortgages, credit cards and other borrowing, remained at a range of 1.5% to 1.75%.   The Fed has lifted rates six times since December 2015. But investors widely anticipated that policy makers would hold off on lifting their benchmark rate at Wednesday's meeting, despite the rosier economic outlook and an uptick in inflation.   The Fed is trying to strike a careful balance: It wants to raise interest rates steadily to keep the economy from overheating, but raising rates too quickly could help start a recession. Economists expect the Fed to nudge rates higher in June.   For now, the Fed has penciled in three rate hikes this year, and three more in 2019. But investors are looking for signs that the Fed might speed up those plans.   Investors will be looking for clues in about three weeks, when the Fed releases the minutes from its May meeting, and at the Fed's next meeting June 12 and 13.   In the meantime, Fed officials have begun to debate publicly how close the economy is to overheating. Forecasts of higher growth and a recent uptick in inflation could lead Fed officials to raise rates faster than previously telegraphed.  US and China kick off talks to avoid a trade war
President Donald Trump's top advisers have arrived in Beijing for two days of talks on how to avoid a trade war between the world's two biggest economies. The United States and China have threatened recently to impose tariffs on tens of billions of dollars of each other's goods, and both sides are hoping enough progress will be made in the negotiations to dial down the tension.   The US delegation, which includes Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, will meet Chinese officials at a state guesthouse in Beijing and plan to depart the Chinese capital on Friday evening, a spokesperson for the US Embassy said Thursday.   "Our great financial team is in China trying to negotiate a level playing field on trade!" Trump said in a late night tweet on Wednesday.   Announcing the visit last week, Trump said he thought there was "a very good chance" of getting a deal with China.   Not everyone agrees with him.   "I don't expect any grand bargains being struck," said Michael Camunez, CEO of consultancy Monarch Global Strategies and a former senior trade official under President Barack Obama.   According to Camunez, the US administration isn't projecting a coherent stance with a team of negotiators that includes trade hawks like Lighthizer and free trade advocates like Larry Kudlow, Trump's top economic adviser.   "There is no clear strategy that can be discerned," Camunez said.   The Chinese government has also tried to reduce expectations.   Given the size and complexity of the trade relationship, "it's not realistic to expect to have all issues resolved through one consultation," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said Wednesday.   While the strategy may not be obvious, and expectations may be low, the US delegation will be looking to make progress in three key areas:   1. Cutting the deficit   The Trump administration wants China to buy more US exports in the hope of cutting America's $375 billion deficit in goods with its biggest trading partner. It's also pressing Beijing to move away from an industrial policy that critics say subsidizes Chinese companies on the global stage and pressures foreign rivals to hand over key technologies.     But the best the United States can hope for this week is a "short-term bargain," said Derek Scissors, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a Washington-based think tank.   That might include China giving more details about its plans to open up its auto sector and pledging to increase imports from the United States. Scissors said a "credible promise" from Beijing to buy an additional $50 billion of US goods each year would be considered a win by Trump's trade team, but he doesn't think that's likely to happen.     China is likely to find it hard to ramp up imports of American-made goods, experts say.   There just aren't many additional "big ticket" items China needs from the United States, said Pauline Loong, head of Hong Kong research firm Asia Analytica.   Chinese businesses want high-tech US products. But the Trump administration sent an alarming signal last month by banning Chinese smartphone maker ZTE (ZTCOF) from buying components from American companies for seven years.   2. More access to markets   Rather than buying more American goods in substantial amounts, China is more likely to offer the possibility of greater access for foreign companies to its huge markets, Loong said.   But experts say China's promises of greater access often turn out to be difficult for foreign companies to take advantage of because of delays or onerous requirements they need to meet.   Beijing "happily offers good intent," Loong said. "But what it has always been reluctant to offer is specifics."   Late last year, the government said it would allow foreign companies to control Chinese banks and investment firms for the first time, in theory making it easier for Wall Street to do business in the country.   Lyndon Chao, a managing director at the Asia Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association, said many foreign investment firms may struggle to qualify because of the amount of assets they're required to hold.   Still, one European bank has already moved quickly to seize the opportunity. Swiss bank UBS  (UBS)said Thursday it has applied to increase its stake in its Chinese securities venture to 51%.   3. Protecting intellectual property    American companies that already operate in China want the Trump administration to pressure Beijing to do more to stop theft of their intellectual property, counterfeiting and forced transfers of technology to Chinese firms, according to Jacob Parker, vice president of lobby group the US-China Business Council.   The issue has become a particular point of contention as China works to shift its economy from low-end manufacturing toward more high-tech industries.   Trump and his senior economic advisers have spoken out about the issues, citing them as a key reason for imposing tariffs. But Parker says business leaders worry that the administration's obsession with the trade deficit, which many economists say is misplaced, reduces the likelihood of improving conditions for American companies.   "We'd like to see the Trump administration clearly articulate what it wants China to do," he said.   -- Steven Jiang contributed to this report.  The housing bust derailed his career. Here's what he's doing now
Joshua Hager always knew he'd return to the mortgage industry. One of the many casualties of the housing crisis, he had been forced out a decade ago. Then 29 and living in New Jersey, he was laid off from his job as a mortgage underwriter at Aurora Loan Services, a subsidiary of the now-shuttered Lehman Brothers that provided loans requiring little or no documentation.   When CNNMoney first interviewed Hager in early 2008, he couldn't find work -- despite sending out hundreds of resumes. It was a tough job market: Nearly 125,000 workers on Wall Street, at mortgage firms and at other financial companies had received pink slips since the start of  2007.   Hager finally got a job six months later as a commercial credit analyst for a firm that provided financing for Laundromats, dry cleaners and delis.   But it wasn't long before he made his way back into the mortgage industry. A former boss invited him to join Bank of America in 2010 to help handle the flood of refinancing applications that stemmed from former President Barack Obama's Home Affordable Refinance Program, known as HARP.   Hager, who turns 40 in May, said it was hard to stay away.   "There's a special adrenaline rush that you get when you are helping someone achieve their dream and making sure it's the right fit for them," he said.   The Bank of America job only lasted 10 months, however, and Hager bounced around different firms for a few years after that. But his fortunes rose as the housing market healed. He was recruited to Wells Fargo in 2013, landing a job as an underwriter.   Hager worked at Wells Fargo for two and a half years and then decided to take a little time off. He joined Better, a start-up mortgage lender based in New York City, in the fall of 2016 as its third underwriter.   His LinkedIn profile sums up the roller-coaster ride his career has taken: "Been in the mortgage industry for 14 years, and I've seen the good the bad and the ugly. Enjoying my current work life and life itself."   The good, the bad and the ugly   The housing market has indeed recovered since it helped send the nation into the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. Foreclosures are down, home prices are up, and banks are lending again.   It's a very different industry, however. Gone are the days when home buyers could put little to nothing down and provide few financial documents proving they could afford the purchase. Now, they need savings and a good credit score.   Subprime loans are a tiny sliver of originations, and financial institutions no longer scramble to bundle mortgages into securities and sell them to investors around the world, said Guy Cecala, publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade publication.   "It's a more stable market and much more conservatively underwritten," he said.   At Better, Hager focuses on loans that meet the standards of housing mortgage giant Fannie Mae. It's a major shift from the no-documentation loans of his days at Aurora. Now, mortgage applications are vetted more thoroughly, though lenders are more willing to provide funding to qualified borrowers than they were immediately after the crisis.   "The industry is in a better place," said Hager. "It's not overheated."   The biggest problem these days is that it's hard to find a house to buy, said Brian Chappelle, partner with Potomac Partners, a mortgage consulting firm.   "The number one problem in the market today is there is no inventory," he said.   Much of the activity in recent years has been homeowners refinancing their mortgages to secure lower interest rates, though that business has cooled lately as rates creep up. Loan originations fell from $2.1 trillion in 2016 to $1.8 trillion last year and are expected to drift down again, according to Inside Mortgage Finance data.   This has prompted larger banks to lay off underwriters, though smaller players -- like Hager's employer -- are still ramping up.   Hager recently moved to San Francisco to help grow the firm's California office as its West Coast underwriting manager. The company now has a total of 11 underwriters in its two U.S. locations, plus an office in India. Now a veteran of the industry, Hager helps train his less experienced colleagues.   Today's would-be homeowners are different, he said. They spend more time saving so they are in better financial shape when they apply for a mortgage. On the flip side, many have more debts -- particularly student loans.   "We learn more about the borrower than we did previously," said Hager. "That's the best thing to do. It's harder today [than pre-crisis]. You have to ask more questions."   Personally, Hager said he has put the housing crash behind him. He is energized about working at a start up that focuses on helping home buyers, particularly first-timers, through the mortgage process.   "I'm not looking back at what was," he said. "I'm lucky. I landed on my feet. I stuck with it because it's what I like doing."  Unemployment is below 4% for the first time since 2000
The job market hasn't been this good in a very long time. The unemployment rate dropped below 4% in April for the first time since 2000. The Labor Department reported Friday that it fell to 3.9% — inching closer to territory not seen in half a century.   Employers added 164,000 jobs, slightly below what economists were expecting but better than a comparatively sluggish March. The economy has added jobs every month for seven and a half years, the longest streak on record.   "Getting down to 3.9 is quite a marker," said Robert Frick, chief economist with Navy Federal Credit Union.   The report indicates another month of solid job gains for an economy that has been expanding for almost nine years. Only the 1990s expansion was longer.   Business would be adding even more jobs if they could find the workers they want. There are more than 6 million unfilled job openings in the United States, near a record. The number of people quitting jobs is also historically high, as workers leave for better jobs.   The unemployment rate fell in April because the labor force shrank: 236,000 Americans who were either working or looking for work dropped out of the job market.   "We would have liked to see more people getting jobs rather than people leaving," said Satyam Panday, senior economist at S&P Global Ratings.    Frick believes unemployment will keep falling as businesses offer more attractive wages and benefits to entice Americans who have stopped looking for work.   "There's still hundreds of thousands of more people who will enter the workforce," he said. "I think we can get down to 3.5%."   Unemployment fell as low as 3.8% in April 2000, in the waning days of the technology boom. The last time it was lower than that was 1969.   Average hourly wages ticked up 4 cents in April. They grew 2.6% from a year earlier, slightly below economists' expectations.   "Wages haven't been able to break out of the 2.5% to 2.8% range," Panday said.   But Panday expects wages to pick up as the labor market tightens further, putting pressure on businesses to pay more to keep their workers and entice new ones.   Americans need rising wages to help offset higher prices and drive consumer spending, the backbone of the economy.   Inflation is closing in on the Federal Reserve's 2% target, gasoline is heading toward $3 a gallon, and companies have been reporting cost pressures, which could force them to raise prices.   But it could force the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates more quickly than planned, a concern on Wall Street in recent months.   The report boosted the stock market: The Dow jumped almost 300 points. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury note, which has been climbing as expectations of further rate hikes increase, fell slightly to 2.92% after the jobs report came out.   Hiring gains in April were broad. Professional and business services added 54,000 jobs, health care added 24,000, and manufacturing posted an increase of 24,000 jobs.   Mining, a category that includes not just coal and metals but jobs in oil and gas fields, added 8,000 positions, partly because of a rise in oil prices. Employment in mining has risen by 86,000 since October 2016.   Counting Labor Department revisions for February and March, the economy has added an average of 208,000 jobs a month over the past three months.   "It's a robust pace given where we are in the cycle," Panday said.   President Trump celebrated the report. "3.9% Unemployment. 4% is Broken!" he said on Twitter.  JUST OUT: 3.9% Unemployment. 4% is Broken! In the meantime, WITCH HUNT!    The economy has added 2.7 million jobs during Trump's first 15 full months in the White House, extending labor market gains under the Obama administration. Employers added 3.1 million jobs during the last 15 months of President Barack Obama's tenure.   — CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this story.  The US can't keep up with demand for health aides, nurses and doctors 
The US will need to hire 2.3 million new health care workers by 2025 in order to adequately take care of its aging population, a new report finds. But a persistent shortage of skilled workers -- from nurses to physicians to lab technicians -- will mean hundreds of thousands of positions will remain unfilled, according to research by global health care staffing consultancy Mercer.   "Few other industries are racing the clock to find a future-ready workforce like today's health care administrators," said Jason Narlock, senior consultant with Mercer.   The largest number of new job openings -- about 423,200 -- will be for home health aides, the report found.   Becoming a home health aide requires less education and training than other health care jobs. Typically, an entry-level position requires a high school diploma, for example. However, aides don't earn much, with median pay of about $11 an hour, or $23,130 a year, according to the Labor Department.   That low pay makes it hard to attract new talent to the field. And with more workers retiring, Mercer projects there will be a shortage of 446,300 home health aides by 2025.   Nurses will also be in hot demand.   Mercer estimated that there will be 400,000 new nursing assistant positions and nearly 51,500 new nurse practitioner openings, but there will not be nearly enough skilled workers to fill those roles.   Not only are experienced nurses retiring at a rapid clip, but there aren't enough new graduates to replenish the workforce. Hospitals and other medical facilities are getting so desperate to recruit and retain nurses they're offering pricey perks and incentives, including five figure signing bonuses.   "When there are fewer nurses available to handle a bigger volume of patients, it adversely affects patient outcomes because of nursing burnout," said Narlock. "Patients are more likely to be readmitted after 30 days of first being seen. They can also be at a higher risk of a hospital acquired infection."   The cascading effect of this is seen down the chain. "When patients are readmitted, it puts more pressure on physicians who are already handling a heavy patient load," he said.   Physicians and surgeons are already stretched thin. But by 2025, there will be nearly 103,000 new openings for these positions and a shortage of 11,000 skilled professionals for these roles.   Elsewhere, Mercer found that medical and clinical lab technicians and technologists will see more than 110,000 new job openings by 2025, but face a shortage of nearly 98,000 trained professionals.   A shortage of lab technicians can cause treatment delays. "It creates a backlog to process lab and other diagnostic tests," said Narlock.   He said health care worker shortages are more pronounced in rural areas, where it's historically been harder to recruit doctors and nurses.   Narlock said health care systems have to be innovative in order to address the labor imbalance. "Look at an industry that has faced disruptions where there is an available labor pool that can be retrained to fill these positions," he suggested.   In Ohio, for example, one health care system retrained workers who had lost manufacturing jobs to fill jobs as diagnostic technicians. "These workers already had some skills that prepared them for this training," he said.   Retail is another area where ongoing layoffs could provide available labor.   "In local economies, the retail industry could present one of the largest pools of labor for health care systems to effectively retain workers for jobs such as home health aides," he said.  Why pollen is costing Japan nearly $2 billion a year
Springtime in Japan brings the country's famous cherry blossoms into bloom, but it also causes widespread bouts of hay fever that hurt businesses across the country. Japan will lose around 200 billion yen ($1.8 billion) this year because of pollen-induced allergies, according to the Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute, a research firm in Tokyo.   The damage comes in several forms, according to Toshihiro Nagahama, the institute's chief economist. Fewer people want to go out, which hits consumption, and workers suffering from hay fever take more sick days. Or if they do show up to work, they're less productive.   And 2018 is looking like one of the worst years on record for hay-fever sufferers in Japan. The pollen count in some parts of the country has more than doubled compared with last year.   Tokyo has been hit particularly hard. A local government survey this year showed that half the capital city's population suffers from hay fever, compared with less than a third in 2008.   At the heart of the problem is Japan's reforestation effort following World War II.   Unfortunately for hay fever sufferers, many of the trees planted then were cedar and cypress trees, which have now matured and are hitting their peak pollen-producing years.   The city is spending about $7 million every year to cut down the allergy-inducing trees and replace them with lower-pollen varieties instead.   Authorities have been replanting about 60 hectares every year since 2006, but uprooting too many trees too fast could trigger landslides and flooding from the hills around Tokyo.   "It's not enough," said Mamoru Ishigaki, who is in charge of Tokyo's forests. The city has around 30,000 hectares of pollen-producing trees, he added.   "I'd like to increase the amount we replant, but even then it'll take between one and two hundred years to complete," Ishigaki said. The cost of the replanting program will add up to billions of dollars.   But not everyone is losing money from hay fever: demand for surgical masks and medicines has spiked, giving pharmaceutical companies and drug stores a boost.   Sales of anti-hay fever drugs topped 20 billion yen ($184 million) in March, according to Japanese medical research firm Anterio, the highest level in 10 years and an increase of 50% from the same month a year earlier.   -- Yoko Wakatsuki and Junko Ogura contributed to this report.   China says 'big differences' remain after US trade talks
China says some progress was made in trade talks with the United States this week but acknowledged that the two sides remain far apart on some issues. After two days of talks in Beijing between top officials, the countries have agreed to continue "close communication," according to a report by China's official news agency, Xinhua.   The negotiators reached agreement in some areas, including on increasing exports from the United States to China, trade in services and intellectual property protection, Xinhua said, but it didn't give any details.   "Both sides realized that there are some relatively big differences on some issues. And more work needs to be done to achieve more progress," Xinhua said Friday.   The White House described the talks as "frank discussions" aimed at fair trade that will help the Chinese, American and world economies.   The American delegation said it was committed to "securing fair trade and investment terms for American businesses and workers."   President Donald Trump tweeted late Friday that he and the delegation "will be meeting tomorrow to determine the results, but it is hard for China in that they have become very spoiled with U.S. trade wins!"   Fears of a damaging trade war between the world's top two economies have grown in recent months after the United States and China threatened to slap steep tariffs on tens of billions of dollars of each other's exports.   US moves against Chinese smartphone makers Huawei and ZTE (ZTCOF), and Beijing's decision to tax American sorghum have ratcheted up the tensions.   Last month, the US Department of Commerce banned ZTE from buying product parts from American firms, saying the company lied about punishing employees who violated sanctions against North Korea and Iran.   In a statement Friday, China's Ministry of Commerce said it had lodged "solemn representations with the US" about ZTE during the Beijing talks.   "Irrespective of any short-term deal ... trade friction will be a permanent feature of the next few years," Richard Jerram, chief economist at the Bank of Singapore, said in a research note on Friday.   Unacceptable demands?   Trump had previously called for China to reduce its huge trade surplus with the United States by $100 billion, a demand experts say Beijing would find it difficult to meet.   According to The Wall Street Journal, the US delegation doubled that figure in the Beijing talks, handing the Chinese government a document that demanded a $200 billion cut in the trade imbalance by the end of 2020.   The reported list of demands also includes halting Chinese subsidies for advanced technologies and slashing tariffs on imports of American products.   Trump's delegation of top economic advisers included Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. They met with a Chinese team led by Liu He, President Xi Jinping's top economic adviser.   Analysts had expressed skepticism that two days of talks would lead to any significant breakthrough.   -- Nanlin Fang, Tim Schwarz and Serenitie Wang contributed to this report.  Warren Buffett is not too worried about a trade war
Warren Buffett has plenty on the line if the United States and China can't settle their trade differences. But the Oracle of Omaha isn't that concerned about the relationship. "We've done remarkably well with trade in China," Buffett said of the US at Berkshire Hathaway's annual shareholders meeting Saturday in Omaha, Nebraska. "We will have disagreements with each other. We'll have disagreements with other countries on trade. But it's just too big, and too obvious that the benefits are huge and the world's dependent on, in a major way for its progress."   Threats of a trade war between the world's biggest economies have loomed for months, and both countries have threatened to slap steep tariffs on tens of billions of dollars of exports.   The tensions have rattled global markets — so far this year, for example, the S&P 500 (DVS) index has swung wildly.   Buffett has several interests in China. His conglomerate Berkshire has a massive stake in the Chinese car company BYD, as well as big holdings of Apple (AAPL), GM (GM) and Coca-Cola (KO). All of them have a major presence in the Asian nation.   Berkshire's stock is down about 2% since January.   "It is a win-win situation when the world trades," Buffett said at the meeting, adding that he doesn't think the US and China will "do something extremely foolish."   "We will not sacrifice world prosperity based on differences that arise in trade," he said.   Top trade officials from the United States and China met in Beijing this week, an effort to ease the tough rhetoric and avoid a trade standoff.   The two sides made some progress in the in the two days of talks, according to China's official news agency, Xinhua. But the agency also reported that they still have "relatively big differences on some issues."   President Donald Trump, meanwhile, tweeted Friday that he would be meeting with the delegation to "determine the results."   "But it is hard for China in that they have become very spoiled with US trade wins!" he added.  Our high level delegation is on the way back from China where they had long meetings with Chinese leaders and business representatives. We will be meeting tomorrow to determine the results, but it is hard for China in that they have become very spoiled with U.S. trade wins!    Trade war fears escalated earlier this year after Trump announced hefty new tariffs on Chinese steel and aluminum, which prompted retaliatory measures from China.   On Saturday, Buffett's longtime business partner Charlie Munger defended that move. He added that global trading rules "were almost unbelievably adverse" to US producers.   "Even Donald Trump can be right on some of this stuff," Munger said.   Buffett chimed in, adding that global trade is a benefit to Americans in the grand scheme.   He also said the US government has a duty to communicate that to the public — especially to workers whose jobs are at risk because of global trade.   "The negatives are very apparent and very painful," Buffett said.   He also said the government should "take care of people that become the roadkill for something that is collectively good for us as a country."   —CNNMoney's Paul La Monica and Daniel Shane contributed to this report.  Just who gets those big drug rebates? 
Prescription drug manufacturers dole out billions of dollars in rebates every year, but these savings don't usually trickle down directly to consumers. That may change if the Trump administration has its way. Officials are looking to require insurers to pass at least part of these concessions along to Medicare beneficiaries, which could prompt changes in the broader insurance market as well.   Drug rebates have become an essential, but opaque part of the pharmaceutical industry. However, they are now in the spotlight as the Trump administration seeks ways to lower drug prices. President Donald Trump is expected to give a speech this week on drug prices, with rebates playing a central role.   "There's a range of reasons why drug prices are too high," Scott Gottlieb, commissioner of the Food & Drug Administration, said at the Food and Drug Law Institute conference last week. "To take one example, one of the dynamics I've talked about before that's driving higher and higher list prices, is the system of rebates between payers and manufacturers."   Like most things in America's health care system, it's exceedingly difficult to know just how much a medication costs or what different players in the supply chain pay or earn along the way.   Here's what we know about drug rebates:   Insurers hire pharmacy benefit managers to administer drug programs for their clients, including employers and federal and state governments, who provide drug coverage through Medicare and Medicaid managed care plans.   The managers negotiate rebates from drug manufacturers to insurers in exchange for better coverage terms -- often in the form of lower co-pays for brand name drugs. This makes it more likely that policyholders will choose that cheaper brand name medication over a competitor's version. These middlemen, however, also keep a portion of the rebate for themselves.   The rebate figures are eye-popping. Insurers received $89 billion in rebates, reducing their spending on prescription drugs to $279 billion in 2016, according to estimates from Altarum, a research and consulting firm. This doesn't include the portion of the rebate that pharmacy benefit managers keep, which isn't disclosed.   Insurers argue that they pass along the savings to consumers in the form of lower premiums and out-of-pocket costs. And the Pharmaceutical Care Management Association, which represents the managers, says that the rebates help keep drug spending in check even as list prices increase.   "These rebates are used by payers to reduce premiums and out-of-pocket costs for patients," the association said in response to Gottlieb's remarks. "Getting rid of rebates would leave patients and payers, including Medicaid and Medicare, at the mercy of drug manufacturer pricing strategies."   But the system has come under scrutiny, both for the lack of transparency and for the burden it places on consumers. Policyholders' co-pays are typically based on the list price of the drug, not the cost after the rebate.   Some insurers are already changing their ways. UnitedHealthcare (UNH) and Aetna (AET) said in March that they would pass along the rebates to their customers enrolled in a certain type of job-based insurance coverage. It would affect a total of about 10 million policyholders at the two carriers.   UnitedHealthcare said the discounts can range from a few dollars to more than $1,000 per prescription, depending on the medication. The company also said the move would not lead to increased rates. Aetna did not provide such details.   Passing along the rebate, however, will benefit relatively few Americans, said Gerard Anderson, a health policy professor at Johns Hopkins University. It will likely lower -- or even eliminate -- the co-pays for those taking expensive brand name drugs for serious conditions, such as cancer, diabetes or hepatitis C. (Insurers generally don't receive rebates for generic drugs, which made up 89% of prescriptions but only 26% of drug spending in 2016, according to the Association for Accessible Medicines, the trade association for generic medicines.)   Shifting the rebates, however, could raise costs for everyone else, both because insurers could raise premiums to make up for the loss of the discounts and because sicker patients will likely take even more of the pricey medications if they don't cost much.   "Lower co-pays on the part of consumers mean insurers are paying more," said Ani Turner, co-director of sustainable health spending strategies at Altarum. "If that results in higher premiums, it's not clear if consumers overall will benefit."  Argentina in talks with IMF for credit line 
Argentina is in talks with the International Monetary Fund to obtain a credit line to help halt a free fall of the nation's currency. "Discussions have been initiated on how we can work together to strengthen the Argentine economy and these will be pursued in short order," Christine Lagarde, IMF's managing director, said in a statement.   The IMF has been known to offer countries flexible lines of credit as a way to reassure markets they are following economic policies by the Washington-based fund. Countries can tap on the credit line at any time.   Confirmation of the talks came hours after Argentinian President Mauricio Macri said he had asked the IMF for a credit line in a televised address.   "This is going to allow us to strengthen our growth and development program," Macri said according to Bloomberg. "This will allow us face the new global scenario and avoid a crisis like the ones we have faced before in our history."   Neither Argentina nor the IMF have said how large the credit line would be.   It was the first time Macri has spoken since the central bank abruptly raised interest rates three times in a 10-day period to 40%.   The country's currency, the peso, has plunged more than 18% this year.  Hyundai Group is getting ready to do business in North Korea again
One of the biggest names in South Korean business is getting ready to take advantage of the country's improving relations with North Korea. Hyundai Group said Tuesday that it's setting up a task force to prepare for the potential restarting of economic projects in North Korea.   The announcement comes shortly after a historic summit between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean supreme leader Kim Jong Un at which they committed themselves to rebuilding ties after years of tensions.   Hyundai Group, which split from the Hyundai Motor Group in 2000, was involved in various business projects in North Korea in the past, including a mountain resort and the Kaesong industrial complex, where North Korean workers made goods for South Korean companies.   "Hyundai needs to be ready when/if the two Koreas agree on terms and inter-Korean economic cooperation resumes," a company spokesman said.   Hyundai will be closely monitoring the planned summit between Kim and US President Donald Trump that's expected to take place in the coming weeks, as well as any potential changes to the heavy sanctions in place on North Korea's economy, the spokesman said.   The Kaesong complex, a symbol of cooperation between the two Koreas, was closed as relations deteriorated in 2016. More than 120 South Korean companies had a presence there, employing tens of thousands of North Koreans and providing a steady stream of foreign currency to the regime in Pyongyang.   Hyundai also previously operated a tourist resort at North Korea's Mount Kumgang, near the border with South Korea. It was shut down in 2008 after a South Korean tourist was killed by a North Korean soldier.   The company's ties to North Korea go back to Hyundai's late founder, Chung Ju-young, who was born there.   Last week, South Korean Deputy Prime Minister Kim Dong-yeon said the country's government was "considering various scenarios" for economic cooperation between the two Koreas.   "The government is preparing response plans to different scenarios in terms of how and how fast to pursue [economic cooperation] and how to procure the resources for it," he said.   South Korea's government has allocated about $900 million to fund economic projects that involve both countries this year, according to the minister.   -- Yoonjung Seo contributed to this report.  Job openings in the United States just hit a record
American businesses can't hire workers fast enough. The United States had a record 6.6 million job openings at the end of March. That's the most since the Labor Department started keeping track in 2000.   In addition, the number of new hires fell by 86,000 in March to 5.4 million, reflecting that businesses aren't finding the right candidates for available jobs. Taken together, the two data points are signs of shortages in the labor market.   Job openings have set records over the past few years as businesses have struggled to fill openings.   Half of small business owners say they can't find enough qualified workers for open positions, according to a National Federation of Independent Business survey this week. Almost a quarter say it's the biggest problem for their businesses.   "The qualification mismatch is an issue here for both employees and employers," said Satyam Panday, senior economist at S&P Global Ratings.   Job openings increased by 472,000 from February to March, according to the Labor Department. Professional and business services, construction, and transportation, warehousing, and utilities led the new vacancies.   There are now about as many openings as there are unemployed workers. During the Great Recession, roughly seven unemployed workers were chasing every available job.   Businesses have added an average of 208,000 jobs a month over the past three months, and unemployment is below 4% for the first time since 2000.   One signal of worker confidence: The number of workers quitting their jobs rose in March to the highest since 2001. Workers believe they can find better similar or higher-paying jobs elsewhere.   The report adds to economists' outlook that the tight labor market will pressure employers to boost wages. The Federal Reserve said in a recent survey of business contacts that raising pay was one way employers were addressing labor shortages.   "We need more people to come off the sidelines, and more attractive wages should be an effective way of encouraging that," Peter Boockvar, chief investment officer at Bleakley Advisory Group, said in an email.  How Joe Biden would fix income inequality in America
Former vice president Joe Biden is worried about the hollowing out of the middle class, income inequality and the lack of opportunity that Donald Trump tapped into to win the White House — and he has some ideas on how to make things better. In a speech at Washington-based think tank the Brookings Institution Tuesday, Biden proposed a number of solutions that have been floated by the Democratic party's most progressive members, like offering free college to everyone and banning tactics used by employers to keep workers from being paid higher wages.   But he stopped short of pitching some of the more sweeping proposals emanating from the party's left flank. Instead, he offered up more mainstream ideas, like providing more federal funding for infrastructure projects and making the tax code less friendly to investors while expanding tax credits for low-income families.   Biden is just the latest Democrat to pitch a plan to help close the ever widening income gap. Since the 2016 election, the party's rising stars like Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Cory Booker of New Jersey, have floated a variety of potential initiatives to address the problem: A universal basic income payment for all Americans, for example, and a government-funded jobs program that would guarantee employment to everyone willing to work.   Biden's language, however, contrasts sharply with the class-war rhetoric of some of his Democratic colleagues.   "I love Bernie, but I'm not Bernie Sanders. I don't think 500 billionaires are the reason why we're in trouble," he said, referring to the Vermont senator and 2016 presidential candidate. "I get into a lot of trouble with my party when I say that wealthy Americans are just as patriotic as poor folks."   Nonetheless, Biden recognized that growing inequality is creating frustration and hopelessness that ultimately undermines American democracy.   "This gap is yawning," he said. "And it's having the effect of pulling us apart. You see the politics of it. And the country's not going to stand for it forever."   While offering only a few details on the mechanics of his proposed solutions, Biden is building out a platform on the middle class on his Biden Foundation web site.   The plan to make higher education free, Biden said, could increase the number of people in college to 9 million. He estimated the measure would cost $6 billion annually, which he said could be paid for by eliminating the "stepped-up basis loophole" that allows heirs to reduce the capital gains taxes they pay on inherited assets.   That proposal appears similar to one offered by President Obama that would have made two years of community college free to all with the help of participating states, at an estimated cost of $61 billion over a decade. Obama had also proposed closing the same tax loophole to fund a number of priorities.   Noting the surprising prevalence of employment contracts that prevent low-wage workers from moving from one job to another, as well as efforts by employers to silence discussion of wages at work, Biden also proposed banning non-compete agreements.   "Give me an economic reason why a sandwich maker has to sign a non-compete clause," Biden said. "Tell me, other than to drive down wages, why you're not allowed to tell the man or woman next to you what you make without violating a contract. I call it greed."   Biden's speech was a clear departure from the mainstream conservative solutions for issues like wage stagnation. White House economists say the main problem for poor wage growth is the decade-long slowdown in worker productivity, which they would remedy by encouraging businesses to invest in equipment and technology that could help each worker accomplish more.   Biden pointed to statistics showing that wages stopped growing in tandem with productivity in the late 1970s. He noted that the two measures remain far apart — which means other solutions are necessary to drive wages up.   "The bargain has been broken," Biden said. "Folks in the middle class are in trouble. It's not just their perception."   The impact of automation and technology on jobs, for example, will only deepen that inequality, Biden said, and demands a policy response.   He related a story about a childhood friend whose son became a truck driver and was worried about losing his job in five years when trucks may be able to drive themselves.   "These folks aren't stupid," Biden said. "They listen. They understand. And they're scared to death."  Trump officials say no to lifetime limits on Medicaid
The Trump administration's promise of unprecedented flexibility to states in running their Medicaid programs hit its limit. On Monday, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services rejected a proposal from Kansas to place a three-year lifetime cap on some adult Medicaid enrollees. Since Medicaid began in 1965, no state has restricted how long beneficiaries could remain in the entitlement program.   "We seek to create a pathway out of poverty, but we also understand that people's circumstances change, and we must ensure that our programs are sustainable and available to them when they need and qualify for them," CMS Administrator Seema Verma said Monday at an American Hospital Association meeting in Washington, D.C.   Arizona, Utah, Maine and Wisconsin have also requested lifetime limits on Medicaid.   This marked the first time the Trump administration has rejected a state's Medicaid waiver request regarding who is eligible for the program.   Critics of time limits, who say such a change would unfairly burden people who struggle financially throughout their lives, cheered the decision.   "This is good news," said Joan Alker, executive director of Georgetown University's Center for Children and Families, a Medicaid advocate. "This was a bridge too far for this CMS."   Alker's enthusiasm, though, was tempered because Verma did not also reject Kansas' effort to place work requirements on some adult enrollees. That decision is still pending.   CMS has approved work requirements for adults in four states — the latest, New Hampshire, winning approval Monday. The other states are Kentucky, Indiana and Arkansas.   All these states expanded Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act to cover everyone with incomes of more than 138% of the federal poverty level ($16,753 for an individual). The work requirements would apply only to adults added through that ACA expansion.   Kansas and a handful of states, including Alabama and Mississippi, that did not expand the program want to add the work requirement for some of their adult enrollees, many of whom have incomes well below the poverty level. In Kansas, an individual qualifying for Medicaid can earn no more than $4,600.   Adding work requirements to Medicaid has also been controversial. The National Health Law Program, an advocacy group, has filed suit against CMS and Kentucky to block the work requirement from taking effect, saying it violates federal law.   The Kansas proposal would have imposed a cumulative three-year maximum benefit only on Medicaid recipients deemed able to work. It would have applied to about 12,000 low-income parents who make up a tiny fraction of the 400,000 Kansans who receive Medicaid.   Kansas Gov. Jeff Colyer, a Republican, responded to the announcement saying state officials decided in April to no longer pursue the lifetime limits after CMS indicated it would not be approved.   "While we will not be moving forward with lifetime caps, we are pleased that the Administration has been supportive of our efforts to include a work requirement in the [Medicaid] waiver," Colyer said in a statement. "This important provision will help improve outcomes and ensure that Kansans are empowered to achieve self-sufficiency."   Eliot Fishman, senior director of health policy for the advocacy group Families USA, applauded Verma's decision.   "The decision on the Kansas time limits proposal that Seema Verma announced today is the right one. CMS should apply this precedent to all state requests to impose time limits on any group of people who get health coverage through Medicaid — including adults who are covered through Medicaid expansion," he said. "Time limits in Medicaid are bad law and bad policy, harming people who rely on the program for lifesaving health care."   Kaiser Health News (KHN) is a nonprofit news service covering health issues. It is an editorially independent program of the Kaiser Family Foundation that is not affiliated with Kaiser Permanente.  Should Millennials get $13,500 to close the generation gap?
Should young people in the United Kingdom be given £10,000 ($13,500) when they turn 25? A top think tank says yes. The proposal from the Resolution Foundation is one of a number of suggestions for reducing inequality between the young and old.   British Millennials and their peers in other developed countries have fallen behind older generations when it comes to wealth, income and home ownership, a trend that politicians have been slow to address in the wake of the global financial crisis.   "We need not just some tinkering, but some big and dramatic solutions," said Matt Whittaker, deputy director at the Resolution Foundation.   The £10,000 payment would come with strings attached: Young people would only be allowed to spend it on developing new skills, entrepreneurship, housing or pensions. The payments would cost an estimated £7 billion ($9.5 billion) per year and would be financed by an overhaul of the inheritance tax system.   The researchers suggested dozens of other changes to improve UK housing, education, health care and the employment market in a bid to give young people a boost. They would control rent levels, improve apprenticeship programs and dramatically lower taxes on home purchases.   "We built it as a package. The idea is that doing one of these without the other would be good, but not as good," said Whittaker.   Brits born during the 1980s and 1990s have faced tough economic challenges since the Great Recession, including an unusual slowdown in wage growth and higher housing costs.   Resolution Foundation research shows that Brits have typically earned more than generations that came before. But the trend stopped with Millennials, who are earning less than Generation X — those born between 1966 and 1980.   "This stalling of generational pay progress is unprecedented," the researchers said.   Britain's vote to leave the European Union, which caused inflation to spike, won't help matters. The Resolution Foundation said that when inflation is taken into account, it will take nearly two decades for pay to return to its peak from before the recession.   But would the changes, including the extra £10,000, be enough?   Kay Neufeld, an economist at the Centre for Economics and Business Research, said the payment would be "a massive leg up."   "I think it would change a lot for a lot of people," he said, adding that it could make home ownership feel within reach, or encourage someone to go to university.   A spokesperson for the government said it welcomed the report from the Resolution Foundation, and described the gap between generations as "one of the key challenges of our time." The spokesperson declined to say whether proposals in the report would be considered.   Tom Selby, an analyst at stockbroker AJ Bell, said that politicians wouldn't be attracted to the suggestions because they might hurt seniors.   "Many of the ideas aren't new and face the same barrier as other reforms -- namely the reality of politics," he said.   Fix the economy first    Still, the policy suggestions would not address other structural problems in the UK economy, including slow productivity.   "If we could fix the productivity problem then it would make a lot of the problems that we highlight easier to deal with," said Whittaker.   Yael Selfin, chief economist at KPMG, said the ultimate goal should be a more productive economy.   "The future lies in stronger growth and making sure that young workers are equipped to be more productive, and hopefully earnings will rise," she said.  US and China will go for Round 2 of trade talks next week
The United States and China will hold a new round of trade talks after no breakthroughs emerged from their first meeting. Chinese President Xi Jinping's top economic adviser, Liu He, will visit Washington next week to continue discussions with President Donald Trump's economic team, the White House said Monday.   Liu led the Chinese delegation that spent two days negotiating in Beijing last week with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and other senior US officials.   Beijing and Washington are trying to avoid a trade war between the world's two largest economies. They have ramped up tensions in recent weeks with threats to impose tariffs on tens of billions of dollars of each other's products.   "We are working on something that we think will be great for everybody," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters on Monday without giving further details on the negotiations.   China said last week that some progress was made in the talks in Beijing, but acknowledged that the two sides remain far apart on some issues. On Tuesday, it struck a more upbeat tone.   "We have noted the statement from the White House press secretary. We think it shows the US side's willingness to reach a consensus with China on economic and trade issues," China's ministry of foreign affairs spokesperson Geng Shuang said at a news briefing. "This is a positive signal."   The scale of the challenge facing negotiators was highlighted by a widely reported document that the US delegation gave to the Chinese government outlining some of the American demands. They included cutting the US trade deficit with China by $200 billion by the end of 2020 and halting Chinese subsidies for advanced technology industries.   "The core of the US position is that China become a genuine market economy on an expedited schedule and that the United States reserves the right to be judge and jury in determining compliance," Scott Kennedy, senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, wrote in a commentary about the talks.   Liu, the leader of the Chinese negotiating team, has been a key architect of China's economic policy under Xi. He's a Harvard graduate and former schoolmate of the Chinese president.   Liu became a member of the Communist Party's Politburo, one of China's top decision-making bodies, last year, and was named as one of the country's four vice premiers in March.   -- Steven Jiang contributed to this article.   Banks are walking away from low-income homebuyers
Banks have been walking away from low-income homebuyers seeking loans, and that has affordable housing advocates worried.  Newly-released federal data on mortgage lending from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau shows people with low- and moderate-incomes made up only 26.3% of borrowers in 2017, down from 36.6% in 2009.   In part, that's due to federal rules that sought to crack down on the subprime lending tactics that helped bring on the financial crisis. Also, skyrocketing housing costs have locked many people of modest means out of the market.   But the data reveals another profound shift. Big banks are moving away from mortgage lending entirely, while independent mortgage companies — or "non-banks" — pick up the slack.   "Non-bank" is a catchall term for financial institutions that don't take deposits. Non-bank mortgage lenders just do mortgage lending, for example. So in a time of low interest rates and higher regulatory costs, traditional banks have the option of moving into more profitable ventures, like credit cards.   "Profit margins on lending have come down quite a bit," says Mike Fratantoni, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association, which represents both banks and non-banks. "So a number of banks have de-emphasized their mortgage lending, because there are other business lines they can focus on."   Related: This Texas military town has nearly closed the black-white homeownership gap   Non-banks, meanwhile, have doubled down on volume — particularly through refinances — and now originate 56% of all home loans, according to the CFPB data.   Now, the biggest mortgage lender in the country isn't a bank at all — it's Quicken Loans, which originated 27% more loans in 2017 than its nearest competitor, Wells Fargo.   And as banks have moved away from the mortgage business, they've fled even more quickly from lower-income black and Hispanic buyers, who often apply through the more forgiving Federal Housing Administration loan programs. Only 15% of the new mortgage borrowers at the nations' three largest banks were low-income in 2017, compared to 29% for the three largest non-banks.   Large banks have blamed their departure from FHA lending on litigation brought against them by the Department of Justice under the False Claims Act, which led to big penalties for Wells Fargo (WFC) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) for approving loans that had not been certified as eligible for FHA insurance.   But advocates for low-income homebuyers charge that banks are simply retreating to a more lucrative segment of the market.    "Frankly it's kind of disturbing to me," says Jesse Van Tol, CEO of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, an umbrella group of affordable housing organizations. "I think you see a number of institutions post-crisis reorienting their bank to a more urban clientele, a more metropolitan clientele."   Related: 10 years after the financial crisis, have we learned anything?    That's a problem, Van Tol says, because non-banks are not covered by the Community Reinvestment Act, which requires depository institutions to do a certain amount of their investing in lower-income communities in the cities where they're based.   "We think every lending institution has an obligation to lend to people of modest means," Van Tol says. "It's not good enough if some people are doing it and others are not."   In addition, economists have raised concerns about the large volume of lending by non-banks. Many of these firms are relatively new and non-public, making it more difficult to assess their level of risk and their capacity to absorb losses if the housing market were to turn sour.'Impossible position': Brexit is going nowhere fast
The British government would like to leave the European Union. It just can't figure out how to make that happen.  With just over 10 months to go until Brexit day (March 29, 2019), the government is paralyzed by indecision over the future trading relationship it wants with the European Union.   The policy choices will have profound implications for the economy and companies doing business in the United Kingdom.   Prime Minister Theresa May has been unable to unite her cabinet over how to handle the flow of goods after Brexit, or what to do about the Irish border -- the only land frontier between the United Kingdom and the European Union.   Negotiators continue to shuttle between Brussels and London, but the same issues that were identified as stumbling blocks a year ago remain unresolved. And parliament has hit the government with a series of defeats on key pieces of legislation related to Brexit.   Experts say the chance that Brexit won't happen is very slim, but the lack of progress and ever tighter deadlines are worrying investors and business executives. They fear a "no-deal" exit that would wreak havoc on the United Kingdom's relationship with its biggest export market.   "We are in a period in paralysis," said John Springford, deputy director of the Centre for European Reform. "The reason for that is all of the various bits of Brexit that are hardest to deal with are coming together at once."   Businesses are most worried about disagreements over trade. Should the United Kingdom remain in a customs union that allows goods to flow freely across the European Union? Should it leave? Or opt for somewhere in between?     How best to approach this riddle has been the subject of a major political brawl. UK media report that May has divided her warring cabinet into two teams, and told them to hash it out.   One team will explore the feasibility of a "highly streamlined" customs arrangement that would use new technology -- much of it expensive and untested -- to "deliver as frictionless a customs border as possible."   The second will look at a "customs partnership" under which Britain would collect EU import duties on goods from outside Europe. That would reduce the need for checks at the UK-EU border.   Even if May can settle on a preferred option, parliament or the European Union could still reject it.   "It's mostly a delay tactic," Springford said of May's strategy for settling the issue. "These are essentially political choices, and no amount of study is going to convert anyone."   Related: Brexit dream of 'frictionless' trade with EU is dying   Top officials are well aware of the risks to the economy if the gridlock continues.   "I was talking this week to the global president of Toyota Motors," Business Secretary Greg Clark told the BBC this week. "They are making a big decision as to where the next motor plant should be in Europe."   "We've got a very successful one ... in North Wales, but there are choices as to whether that should be located on the Continent." Toyota (TM) declined to comment on his remarks.   Business groups are clamoring for clarity. The pound, which plunged after Britain voted to leave the European Union but later recovered, has dropped 5% in recent weeks. The UK economy has stalled, partly because of uncertainty over the outcome of the Brexit process.   Related: Business sounds alarm over Brexit 'chronic uncertainty'   The issue of the Irish border also remains intractable.   Northern Ireland, which is part of the United Kingdom, is leaving the European Union as part of Brexit. The Republic of Ireland is staying in the European Union.   The 310-mile border between Northern Ireland and Ireland is currently invisible, the legacy of the peace process that sought to end decades of sectarian violence. Traffic and goods flow freely, and there are no physical barriers.   Britain and the European Union both want to avoid the return of a "hard border." But they haven't been able to agree on how that might be accomplished.   The European Union has made clear that without an agreement on Ireland, there will be no Brexit deal.   Springford said that May is in an "impossible situation." She cannot bend to the European Union on the Irish border issue without upsetting key political allies in Northern Ireland. Concessions on the customs union, on the other hand, would upset hardliners in her own party.   With two years having ticked away since the Brexit vote, the countdown clock is getting ever louder.   "Nothing is agreed until everything is agreed," Michel Barnier, the chief EU negotiator, has warned repeatedly.Trump lays out his vision for lower drug prices
Seeking to fulfill his longstanding promise to lower drug prices, President Donald Trump laid out his vision for increasing competition, reducing regulations and changing the incentives for all players in the pharmaceutical industry.  During a speech Friday, the president promised that his administration's actions would reduce what consumers pay at the pharmacy and would end the abuse in the system that leads to high drug prices. He blasted drug makers, health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and others for profiting off American patients.   "We are going to take on the tangled web of special interests ... the drug lobby is making an absolute fortune at the expense of American patients," Trump said.   The administration also released a 44-page blueprint of the plan, entitled American Patients First.   The blueprint seeks to increase competition and improve the negotiation of drug prices, as well as reduce consumers' out-of-pocket spending on medicines and create incentives to lower list prices. Health and Human Secretary Alex Azar said it includes more than 50 moves that his agency has put into action or has planned.   Unlike Trump's fiscal 2019 budget proposal, the majority of the actions don't need Congress' approval, senior administration officials said.   The Department of Health & Human Services will take "a range of immediate actions" to implement the blueprint, according to a fact sheet provided by the White House on Thursday. The administration will also seek feedback on other potential policies.   Among the steps Trump and Azar mentioned Friday were ending the drug industry's so-called gag orders of pharmacists, which prevent them from discussing cheaper options with consumers, speeding up the approval of over-the-counter medications and asking the Food & Drug Administration to require manufacturers to include prices in their TV ads.   "Consumers would have much more balanced information and companies would have a very different set of incentives for setting their prices," Azar said.   The world's highest drug costs   Trump also lashed out at foreign governments that "extort unreasonably low prices" from manufacturers.   "In some cases, medicine that costs a few dollars in a foreign country costs hundreds of dollars in America for the same pill, with the same ingredients, in the same packaging, made in the same plant," Trump said. "It's unfair and it's ridiculous, and it's not going to happen any longer."   The president said he directed the US trade representative to make fixing this "injustice" a top priority during trade discussions.   Industry and consumer groups largely supported the president's efforts to tackle drug costs. Pharmacy benefit managers, which manage drug coverage and negotiate discounts for insurers, took the opportunity to tout their efforts to control costs. Others, including those representing insurers, physicians, pharmacists and hospitals, blamed drugmakers for the problem.   But AARP said there's no "justifiable reason" why Americans should have the world's highest drug costs.   Related: The 5 most expensive drugs in the United States    "AARP also strongly believes that it is critical that any proposals to lower prescription drug costs don't simply shift the costs around in the health care system without addressing the root problem: the prices set by pharmaceutical companies," said Nancy LeaMond, AARP's chief advocacy and engagement officer.   There are some promising ideas in Trump's plan, such as reining in pharmacy benefit managers, said Peter Bach, a physician who runs Memorial Sloan Kettering's drug pricing lab. But he doesn't see much point in trying to change drug prices in other counties.   However, the blueprint would affect many players in the drug supply chain.   "There's quite a bit of stirring the water," he said. "He's willing to cross some lines that are near and dear to important industries."   Trump has long promised to bring down the cost of drugs and has blasted drugmakers, but Friday's speech was the first time he addressed it at length. His administration has made several moves, though experts have said they mainly tinker around the edges of the problem.  I am working on a new system where there will be competition in the Drug Industry. Pricing for the American people will come way down!  During Trump's tenure, administration officials have provided some insights into how they intend to address the cost of prescription medicines. The White House has made recommendations in the president's budget request and in a report issued by the White House Council of Economic Advisers.   Among the proposed strategies listed on the fact sheet is allowing insurers in Medicare's Part D drug plans "greater flexibility ... to encourage better price negotiation." Officials said Thursday they would get "government rules out of the way that are preventing seniors from getting better deals."   This, however, doesn't mean that the administration will push to allow the federal government to negotiate Medicare drug prices directly, they said. Trump had promised on the campaign trail to give Medicare more of a role in bargaining.   Many health policy experts and consumer advocates say that the federal government could use its heft to negotiate much lower prices for the more than 57 million Americans in the Medicare program, rather than having insurers that provide Medicare Part D prescription coverage wring discounts from manufacturers. Drug companies, however, have lobbied hard to prevent government involvement, and Republicans have generally not supported such a proposal.   Top officials from the Department of Health & Human Services previewed some of the administration's priorities in recent speeches.   Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said the agency is focused on several problems in the drug industry.   "These include the high list prices set by manufacturers, seniors and government programs overpaying for drugs due to [a] lack of the latest negotiating tools, rising out-of-pocket costs for consumers, and foreign governments free-riding off of American investment in innovation," Azar said in an address before the American Hospital Association on Wednesday. He noted that the agency will build on proposals in the president's budget, but said Trump "wants to go much, much further."   Some of the administration's efforts will seek to lower what consumers or the federal government pay at the pharmacy or to a provider, which some policy experts argue does little to affect the source of the problem: the high list prices of medications. Few expect the president to try to regulate what manufacturers charge for their drugs.   'A convoluted system'   One area in the Trump administration's sights is the shadowy world of drug price rebates. Insurers often receive big discounts for pricey, brand-name drugs from manufacturers. These concessions are usually negotiated by pharmacy benefit managers, who keep part of the rebate and pass the rest to insurers.   Related: Just who gets those big drug rebates?   The administration is looking to make these players share the discount with consumers, an idea the Obama administration also supported.   Seema Verma, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, recently called rebates a "convoluted system," noting that they allow manufacturers to raise list prices. This, in turn, increases the amount of money insurers and pharmacy benefit managers collect in rebates, giving them no incentive to keep prices down.   "When prices go up, patient cost-sharing also goes up," she said in a speech before the American Hospital Association earlier this week. "We've all noticed the increase in the amount we have to pay at the pharmacy counter. For seniors who are sometimes on fixed incomes, the pain is real. This is not acceptable."   Insurers, however, argue that the rebates allow them to keep premiums low. So requiring them to share the discount could raise rates for everyone, while benefiting the relatively few patients who require high-cost, brand name drugs.   The president's budget calls for insurers who provide Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to give at least one-third of the rebates and price concessions to beneficiaries at the pharmacy, according to Avalere, a health care consulting firm. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services is reviewing comments on passing along rebates in Medicare plans.   Related: How Trump plans to cut prescription drug prices   The administration may also revise how it pays for drugs administered in doctor's offices, clinics or hospitals through Medicare's Part B program.   The federal government currently pays providers 6% more than the average price of those medicines. This also gives manufactures the incentive to raise prices and gives providers the incentive to select more expensive medicines. Among the ideas under consideration by the Trump administration are moving Part B coverage into the Part D program, where insurers can better negotiate prices, and requiring manufacturers to provide more accurate sales data to make sure they don't exclude discounts.   Reducing drug costs in Medicaid is also under consideration. The president's budget calls for giving up to five states greater leeway to test drug coverage and payment models in their Medicaid programs. Allowing states to determine which drugs to cover would in theory allow them negotiate bigger discounts directly with manufacturers.   Currently, any medications a manufacturer includes in the federal Medicaid drug rebate program are automatically on the formulary. Some states negotiate supplemental discounts for certain drugs. But if states could decide which drugs were covered, they could theoretically obtain even lower prices.    Meanwhile, the Food & Drug Administration is focusing on reducing prices by increasing competition from generic drugs and so-called biosimilars, which are nearly identical to super-expensive biologic medicines. The agency has cleared a backlog of approvals for generic medications, and officials have spoken about tackling the "games" manufacturers play to keep competitors off the market, such as using loopholes to block rivals or paying them to delay bringing their drugs to market.   Related: Patients who can't afford their medications pin hopes on Trump   Trump's economic advisers blame high drug costs in the United States in part on foreign countries that control drug prices, claiming these countries are taking advantage of American innovation without paying for it.   "The United States both conducts and finances much of the biopharmaceutical innovation that the world depends on, allowing foreign governments to enjoy bargain prices for such innovations," the council's report said. "Simply put, other nations are free-riding, or taking unfair advantage of the United States' progress in this area."   The council suggested changing trade policy to limit the "underpricing" of drugs abroad.   Health policy experts, however, have questioned whether the administration's proposals to date will have a meaningful impact on the high cost of prescriptions.   "This is not doing anything to fundamentally change the drug supply chain or the drug pricing system," said Gerard Anderson, a health policy professor at Johns Hopkins University.   Additional reporting by CNN's Clare Foran.Will the Royal Wedding boost the UK economy?
It's a favorite tabloid newspaper headline: The Royal Wedding will bring a HUGE boost to the economy.  Parts of the British press have been confidently suggesting Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's nuptials on Saturday will benefit the country's economy to the tune of hundreds of millions of pounds.   Retail spending is likely to get a lift from fans and well-wishers buying Royal Wedding souvenirs and food and drink for parties.   But past experience shows that grand royal events don't usually produce the big bucks businesses would like, and they barely register in terms of the performance of the wider economy.   "We would be wary of over-egging the potential impact or seeking to put a hard figure on the potential gains," said Howard Archer, chief economic adviser to the EY ITEM Club.   "It should be kept in mind that some of the retail spending may just be switched from spending on other items."   If history repeats itself, the Royal Wedding will fall flat in terms of economics.   According to the UK Office for National Statistics, the 2011 wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton did not result in a noticeable uptick for the economy.   Most workers were given an extra day off when William, Harry's elder brother and second in line to the throne, got married in April 2011, denting activity across the economy that month.   Setting aside the hit from the extra day off, there was no noticeable lift for the economy.   PwC estimated William and Kate's wedding generated roughly £107 million ($145 million) in extra spending: Good for retailers, but less than 4% of the amount spent in the UK on Black Friday, the busiest shopping day of the year.   Hangover to come?   And any splurge in spending this month may be followed by a slump in June. ONS data shows that while retail sales spiked in April 2011, they fell the following month.   Pubs are likely to be busier thanks to extended opening hours. The UK parliament is allowing all pubs to remain open through 1 a.m. on Friday and Saturday, as opposed to the usual 11 p.m., because of the wedding.   But how much of the extra drinking is down to the wedding will be hard to judge, particularly as one of the UK's biggest annual sporting events -- the FA Cup soccer final -- falls on the same day.   The British Beer & Pub Association expects sales will be £20 million, or about 8%, higher than a normal weekend.   However, the boost could be offset by those who choose to stay home and watch the event on television, instead of going out and spending money on other activities.     Related: How does the royal family make its money?   No tourism bump   There was also no significant boom in tourist arrivals or spending on and around the last royal wedding. The number of people arriving in the UK in April 2011 was little changed, and roughly 500,000 Brits took advantage of the extra day off to leave the country.   A similar pattern is expected this time. There hasn't been a noticeable rise in the number of flight bookings to the UK for the wedding, according to travel experts.   Analysts expect that any spike in visits from royal fans will be counteracted by the desire of other tourists to stay far away from the crowds.   Royal wedding: Tourists won't flock to UK for Harry and Meghan   'Feel good' factor will fade   The UK economy could do with a boost. British GDP grew by just 0.1% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the previous three months, representing the weakest expansion in more than five years.   With key policy questions unanswered and time ticking down, economists said uncertainty over Britain's exit from the European Union in March 2019 and pressure on wages had harmed growth.   A "feel good" factor generated by Meghan and Harry's wedding could prompt people to spend more. But that is unlikely to last long.   "This will likely be short lived as it does not affect the economic fundamentals facing households," said Archer.Seattle passes a smaller version of the 'Amazon tax' 
A controversial proposal that will tax big businesses in Seattle to alleviate the city's homelessness and affordable housing problems was approved Monday.  The Seattle City Council passed it unanimously in a 9-0 vote.   The final package, however, is almost half the size of the original proposal, which never garnered a veto-proof majority on the council. It was publicly opposed by Amazon -- the city's largest private sector employer -- and 131 other businesses.   The newly passed ordinance, which takes effect in January 2019, will impose a "head tax" on the city's highest grossing businesses. The tax will amount to $275 a year per full-time employee in Seattle. It would raise roughly $47 million a year on average and expire after five years, according to the Council.   That's down from the $75 million a year the original proposal would have generated by imposing a $540 head tax per employee for the next few years, after which it would be converted to a 0.7% payroll tax.   Related: For Amazon HQ2 hopefuls, Seattle serves as a cautionary tale   The only companies affected by the new ordinance would be those generating $20 million or more of annual revenue in the city. That's roughly 3% of businesses in Seattle, or 585 employers, according to the Council's estimates.   Roughly 60% of the revenue raised would go to building affordable housing, and 40% will be put toward emergency services for the homeless, Councilmember Lorena González said in the Council's public meeting Monday.   Seattle Mayor Jenny Durkan, who threatened to veto the original $540 head tax out of concern that it could cost the city good jobs, said Monday evening she would sign the new compromise deal into law.   "This legislation will help us address our homelessness crisis without jeopardizing critical jobs," Durkan said in a statement.   She promised "urgent action to move people off our streets and into safer places and to clean up garbage, needles and waste from our parks and communities" while also creating "more accountability and transparency with taxpayer dollars."   Seattle does not have an income tax because it's prohibited under Washington state law. So the city is restricted in how it can raise revenue, and currently relies on sales and property taxes as well as a business and occupancy tax.   In recent years the city has experienced an economic boom, but in tandem with that also an acute affordable housing and homelessness problem.   "People are dying on the doorsteps of prosperity," Councilmember Teresa Mosqueda said in the meeting.   Amazon is still not pleased   As a result of the scaled back head tax, Amazon would see its potential bill fall from an estimated $20 million a year to $12.4 million, given that it employs about 45,000 people in the Seattle area.   Nevertheless, the company is "disappointed by today's City Council decision to introduce a tax on jobs," Amazon Vice President Drew Herdener said in a statement.   Herdener noted that the company, which has embarked on numerous efforts to help alleviate the homeless problem, has resumed its construction on a new 17-floor office tower, which it had paused ahead of the vote.   But, he added, "we remain very apprehensive about the future created by the Council's hostile approach and rhetoric toward larger businesses, which forces us to question our growth here."   Correction: An earlier version of this story stated the tax would raise $44.7 million a year, according to the Council. The Council's estimate is $47 million a year.Trump throws ZTE curveball as big week for US-China trade begins
With his pledge to save a major Chinese company from crippling US sanctions, President Donald Trump has delivered yet another twist in the trade clash with Beijing.  His announcement on Twitter that he's working to give China's ZTE "a way to get back into business, fast" was a sudden shift in the US stance at the start of a big week for trade ties between the world's top two economies.   Washington and Beijing have threatened to impose tariffs on tens of billions of dollars of each other's products, fueling fears of a full-blown trade war.   Related: Trump says he's working with China to save ZTE   Talks in Beijing earlier this month aimed at dialing down the tensions failed to produce any major breakthroughs. But Chinese President Xi Jinping's top economic adviser is heading to Washington this week for more negotiations.    American companies will also have a chance to publicly tell the Trump administration what they think about its planned tariffs on Chinese goods.   Here's what to keep an eye on this week.   1. What will happen to ZTE?   The fate of Chinese technology company ZTE (ZTCOF) has become a major flashpoint in the US-China trade tensions.   Last month, the US Commerce Department blocked American firms from selling parts or providing services to ZTE, which makes smartphones and other telecommunications equipment. The ban was put in place after Washington said ZTE violated a deal in which the Chinese company agreed to pay a $1.2 billion fine for evading US sanctions on Iran and North Korea.   Related: ZTE is now center stage in the US-China trade fight   ZTE, which employs around 75,000 people worldwide, has disputed the decision and is appealing it. The company upped the stakes last week by saying it had halted most of its operations because of the ban.   Trump appeared to throw ZTE a lifeline with his tweet Sunday in which he said "too many" Chinese jobs were at risk. The Commerce Department has been "instructed" to get ZTE back into business, he added.   Trump's announcement -- welcomed Monday by Beijing -- should create a more positive backdrop for trade talks.   "The Trump administration is softening its stance and stepping back from using the most destructive weapon in the negotiation," said Ken Cheung, a currency strategist at Mizuho Bank in Hong Kong. "The second round of negotiation should be more constructive."   2. Round 2 of trade talks   That second round of talks is happening this week.   Chinese Vice Premier Liu He will lead a Chinese delegation visiting Washington from Tuesday through Saturday, China's Foreign Ministry said Monday.   "I suspect Liu will try to engage with his Treasury counterpart, Steven Mnuchin, whom the Chinese see as the most willing to make a deal," said Richard McGregor, senior fellow at the Lowy Institute, a think tank based in Sydney.   Related: China says 'big differences' remain after US trade talks   The scale of the challenge facing negotiators was highlighted by a widely reported list of demands that the US delegation gave to the Chinese government before the first round of talks. It included cutting the US trade deficit with China by $200 billion by the end of 2020 and halting Chinese subsidies for advanced technology industries.   McGregor, an expert on Chinese politics and international relations, said he doesn't think Liu will offer any big concessions on the trade deficit, but will rather focus on measures to open up China's markets to more American investment.     3. US businesses have their say    While Liu is in Washington, American companies will be airing their views on the Trump administration's plan to slap tariffs on around $50 billion worth of Chinese goods as punishment for alleged intellectual property theft.   Among the big US companies that have asked to testify at the hearings are Best Buy (BBY), HP (HPQ) and US Steel (X). Lobbying groups seeking to take part include the National Retail Federation and the National Association of Manufacturers.   The hearings start Tuesday and are scheduled to last three days.   The US government has published a list of 1,300 Chinese exports that it plans to target with tariffs of 25%, many of them in advanced manufacturing industries such as aerospace.   Related: Who likes tariffs? Generally, it's not the same people who like Trump   US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer has expressed particular concern about Beijing's high-tech ambitions, as outlined in a Chinese government plan known as "Made in China 2025."   A number of big US businesses and industry associations have opposed the planned tariffs, fearing higher costs for American consumers and retaliation from China.   China has already hit back by proposing its own tariffs on American goods worth a similar amount.   -- Steven Jiang, Jackie Wattles, Julia Horowitz and Sherisse Pham contributed to this report.GE, Best Buy and Roku: Who's weighing in on Trump's China tariffs this week
For many American companies, it's almost crunch time on tariffs.  As soon as next week, the Trump administration could impose tariffs on roughly 1,300 Chinese exports worth $50 billion as punishment for alleged intellectual property theft.   But before it does, the US Trade Representative has to hear from more than 100 businesses and trade groups, all of which plan to weigh in at hearings in Washington from Tuesday through Thursday on the proposed 25% duties.   The list of items that could be affected ranges from aerospace equipment to manufacturing components to medical supplies. It even includes oddities like bookbinding machines, flamethrowers and artificial teeth.   Much of Corporate America has something at stake. Here's a sampling of who is scheduled to speak.   Retailers   The National Retail Federation, one of Washington's largest trade groups, is set to testify Wednesday. The group has been a vocal opponent of the tariffs, and ran an ad arguing that they are "bad economics" on "Fox and Friends" Monday morning. It'll run on "Roseanne" and "Saturday Night Live" later this week.   The group argues that because retailers decide on vendors six to 12 months in advance, stores won't be able to cancel orders of the Chinese goods faced with duties. They'll then have to pass the higher costs on to consumers, NRF said in its written comments.   Best Buy (BBY) is also scheduled to testify Tuesday. The company said in its request to appear that it'll raise issue with tariffs on color TVs.   The tech industry   The Consumer Technology Association is supposed to testify Wednesday. The trade group, which represents 2,200 manufacturers, developers and retailers in the consumer technology industry, has warned that the tariffs will increase the cost of Chinese TVs by 23% and all TVs by 4%.   The organization specifically wants 193 products — including steel nuts, home dishwashers and cash registers — to be removed from the list, claiming such tariffs would cause "disproportionate harm" to member companies.   Related: Trump throws ZTE curveball as big week for US-China trade begins   "Some of our members, particularly innovative startups, say the proposed tariffs put them at a disadvantage relative to their competitors in other nations," the group said in written comments submitted to the USTR. "They fear that those competitors will be able to undercut them in the market by continuing to import critical components from China, now at a fraction of the cost to US businesses."   Roku, which makes TV streaming products, is scheduled to speak Tuesday. The company opposes tariffs on its smart TVs, which it says could cause sales to decline.   The industrial sector   US Steel is scheduled to talk Tuesday. The company said in its request to appear that it wants the US government to apply more tariffs, specifically on the full range of tin- and chromium-coated steel sheet products.   Right now, only some of these products are covered by the proposed tariffs, creating a gap, the company said.   General Electric (GE) has been tapped to testify Wednesday. The company's head of government affairs and policy is expected to say that the company does not support tariffs, but if the US goes ahead with them, it should avoid taxing certain items, such as manufacturing components that cannot be easily replaced.   GE plans to note that 1,000 of the roughly 1,300 exports under consideration for tariffs would impact the company in some way. However, it's only asking the government to remove nearly three dozen products from its list.   Other companies   InSinkErator, which makes garbage disposals, is scheduled to testify Tuesday. The company wants USTR to add kitchen waste disposers to the list of items subject to the tariffs.   Chinese production of garbage disposals "is driven in part by systemic patent, copyright, and trademark infringement," the exact the type of behavior that the tariffs are designed to address, InSinkErator said in the comments it submitted to the USTR.   Related: Companies make last-ditch appeal to Trump: Tariffs are a bad idea   Vista Outdoor is scheduled to appear Wednesday. The outdoor sports company, a big player in guns and ammo, said in written comments that it doesn't think that items like riflescopes, oven liners and portable shower water heaters should be included on the final USTR list.   "Vista will discuss how the imposition of an additional 25% tariff will raise consumer prices, decrease consumer choice, damage US companies and, ironically, could even result in increased imports of some downstream Chinese products," the company said in its request to appear.Germany's growth slump sends early warning on trade war
Talk of a trade war remains just that but Europe's economy may already be showing the first signs of damage from a rise in protectionist rhetoric.  Germany, the region's biggest economy and a global export power, posted quarter on quarter growth of just 0.3% in the first three months of the year. That's half the rate it achieved in the previous quarter.   "It appears that with last year's global trade surge fading and the specter of protectionism hanging over firms the German economy has passed its growth peak for now," said Oliver Rakau, chief German economist at Oxford Economics.   The quarterly GDP data was only a preliminary estimate, and the German statistics office did not provide a detailed breakdown of the economy's performance. But "less dynamic" foreign trade was a factor, it said.   Trade powers the German economy, with exports accounting for roughly 50% of GDP. The country has a huge trade surplus with the rest of the world, which has long been a source of irritation for President Donald Trump.   He has criticized Germany repeatedly for being "very bad on trade" and threatened tariffs on German car exports.   Trump's protectionist rhetoric has so far not translated into concrete policies aimed at Germany. He has imposed tariffs on European steel and aluminum imports, but those have been suspended until June.   Germany more at risk than most   But threats alone appear enough to have made a dent in Germany's growth, as businesses postponed investment decisions and factory output dropped -- and analysts are worried worse times could be ahead.   "If the US continues with its current approach and implements protectionist measures, Germany would be more at risk than most," said Jack Allen, European economist at Capital Economics. "It is a more open economy than most EU countries, and it also exports more than most outside the EU."   German exporters have also been hit by a rise in the euro, which makes their products more expensive in overseas markets. The euro hit $1.26 in February, its highest level since 2014, but has since fallen back to $1.18.   Related: UK economy grinds to a halt   The World Trade Organization warned last month that tariffs and other trade restrictions would inflict serious damage on the global economy. It urged Trump and other world leaders to "show restraint."   Florian Hense, an economist at Berenberg Bank, said the risk of more trade restrictions and uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and Europe are hurting growth, even though the actual economic impact of the steel and aluminum tariffs Trump has threatened would be quite small.   "The real risk stems from the uncertainty about the future trade regime, as shown by the serious damage Brexit has done to the UK already," he added.   The UK economy grew just 0.1% in the first quarter, the second worst performance in Europe after Romania.   Related: Europe ready to hit back if Trump presses on with tariffs   Growth numbers for the eurozone showed similar downward trend on Tuesday. Germany is Europe's biggest economy and it tends to drive its growth.   The eurozone economy grew by 0.4% in the first quarter, compared to 0.7% in the previous quarter.Get ready for higher gas prices and mortgages rates
For nearly a decade, Americans have benefited from a magical trio of cheap loans, low prices and soaring stocks.  It's been a heady mix of mortgage rates below 4%, cheap gas and double-digit investment returns.   But nine years into the economic expansion, the pixie dust may be wearing off.   The Federal Reserve is raising benchmark interest rates, which means more expensive auto loans and mortgages. The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage has crept to a four-year high above 4.5%. That's still historically low, but it means borrowers can afford a little less house for their money.   After years of super-low inflation, Americans are paying more for the things they buy.   Gas prices this summer are expected to be the highest in four years. Bank of America forecasts global oil prices to top $100 a barrel next year. That means higher costs for airlines, truckers, package delivery companies and big consumer brands. Manufacturers report higher costs for steel and aluminum.   Related: The reason shipping costs are skyrocketing   And that roaring stock market? The Dow is up about 35% and the broader S&P 500 up 27% since the election, but they are flat this year.   Phenomenal corporate profits remain the stock market's backbone, but risks abound as the United States engages in trade talks with China, enters nuclear negotiations with North Korea and plans to re-impose sanctions on Iran.   For now, Americans feel good. A recent CNN poll shows 52% of Americans approve of President Trump's handling of the economy. The timing is fascinating: Higher gas prices and rising interest rates just months ahead of the midterm elections in the fall.House clears path to roll back post-crisis banking rules
American banks angling to get relief from post-crisis rules may soon be breathing easier.  The House is set to vote next week on a Senate bill that would cut regulations for thousands of community banks and regional lenders, including State Street, BB&T and Sun Trust, according to a spokeswoman for House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy on Wednesday.   After nearly two months of tough negotiations, House Republicans brokered a deal last week with the Senate to move forward on a vote, ending a deadlock that would have jeopardized a bill backed by the White House, Republicans and some Democrats.   The House is now expected to vote on the Senate's bill unchanged and will likely send it to President Trump for his signature.   House Speaker Paul Ryan told reporters last Tuesday that the House agreed to advance legislation, crafted by Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo, along with a companion package of bills supported by House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling.   The majority of the House measures are aimed at removing barriers for businesses and entrepreneurs who are seeking capital and investment.   Related: Bankers worry Dodd-Frank rollback bill could in jeopardy   "I had a good meeting with the majority leader over break on this, and so we've got an agreement," Ryan said referring to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.   In a statement last week, Hensarling expressed optimism the Senate bill along with measures passed by the House in the last six months would "create regulatory policy that will help us achieve sustained 3% economic growth."   After weeks of stalemate, the outgoing Texas Republican signaled last month he might be willing to drop his demands to amend Crapo's bill, if the Senate would agree to move forward on a separate package of bipartisan bills passed by his committee.   "I'm far more wedded to substance than form, so as I've told other people, I'm more than happy to attend multiple signing ceremonies," Hensarling said at a US Chamber of Commerce event in late April.   Hensarling wanted to add a number of measures to the Senate bill. One would ease disclosure requirements for banks on mortgage loans. Another would allow more companies to file confidential IPOs without divulging all their sensitive financial information right away.   But any changes in the House would send the bill back to the Senate. And moderate Senate Democrats, whose support was critical in advancing the banking bill, have said they won't vote on the bill twice.   "This bill will not pass if it comes back to the Senate," said Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, at an American Bankers Association conference in Washington. "We've stretched this about as far as we can go."   Democrats who supported the bill drew backlash from more progressive members of the party, who argued that a regulatory rollback would make the financial system more vulnerable to another crisis.   Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who opposed the bill, wrote on Twitter after it passed that "bankers are popping champagne."   Related: What's in the Senate banking bill    McCarthy welcomed both chambers "taking additional policy action" to help improve access to capital for entrepreneurs and small businesses "in the coming weeks."   A spokeswoman for Crapo, a Idaho Republican, declined to comment.   The Senate's bill would raise the threshold at which banks are considered "too big to fail." That trigger, now set at $50 billion in assets, would rise to $250 billion. That means more than two dozen midsize US banks would be shielded from some Federal Reserve oversight.   They would no longer have to hold as much capital to cover losses on their balance sheets. They would not be required to have plans in place to be safely dismantled if they failed. And they would have to take the Fed's bank health test only periodically, not once a year.   Community banks with less than $10 billion in assets would no longer have to comply with the so-called Volcker Rule. The rule bars financial institutions from making risky bets with money that is insured by taxpayers.Japan's longest growth streak in decades just came to an end
The world's third-largest economy is shrinking again.  Japan's gross domestic product contracted at an annualized rate of 0.6% in the first quarter of 2018, according to government data published Wednesday.   That snaps a run of eight consecutive quarters of growth, the longest Japan has achieved since the boom days of the late 1980s.   The limp first-quarter performance was spread across different areas of the economy, according to Marcel Thieliant, senior Japan economist at research firm Capital Economics.   "Private consumption and public demand were flat while investment spending and net exports fell slightly," he said in a note to clients.   Related: Why Japan's economy still needs help after $3 trillion binge   The contraction was bigger than economists had forecast. But Japan may still dodge a recession, which is usually defined as two consecutive quarters of negative growth. Thieliant said he expects Japan's economy to return to growth in the second quarter.   The country faces serious challenges, including a rapidly aging population, a lack of women in the workforce and stubbornly low inflation. Moderate inflation is good for an economy as it encourages consumers to spend.   Japan just doesn't have the resources to keep growing at a healthy clip, according to Thieliant. That can mean a shortage of drivers to deliver goods, not enough roads or ports to move cargo, or a lack of machinery for manufacturing products.   Japan's recent growth streak was helped by years of massive stimulus from the Bank of Japan that aimed to get businesses and consumers spending again after a prolonged period of stagnation and falling prices.   Related: Japan is set to miss out on the global growth party this year   Jesper Koll, head of Japan at investment firm WisdomTree, said that Wednesday's disappointing economic data means the central bank won't be turning off the money spigot anytime soon.   Rising wages aren't prompting consumers to spend more. Households are saving the extra income instead, which suggests "a fundamental lack of confidence in the future," Koll said.   Another problem for Japan could be its currency, according to analysts at investment bank Nomura said. The yen has strengthened more than 2% against the dollar since the start of the year, making Japanese exports like cars and electronics more costly.   It could rise further if global trade tensions spook markets because the Japanese currency is regarded as safe haven for investors during periods of turmoil, the Nomura analysts said.   "The Bank of Japan will want to do everything it can to prevent a rise in the yen," Koll added.Why Millennials aren't feeling the boom in household wealth
Households are wealthier than ever. But if you're a Millennial or have a low credit score, you probably don't feel any richer.  Since the financial crisis, home equity has grown for older Americans as home prices have recovered and debt has accumulated more slowly, according to a study by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York released Thursday.   But younger people and borrowers considered less creditworthy haven't reaped the same benefits. Homeownership has declined for these Americans because of tighter lending standards.   The Fed study examined home equity between 2006 and 2017.   In 2006, before the crisis, Americans over age 60 and under age 45 each held about a quarter of the country's overall home equity.   But by 2017, older Americans held 41% and younger Americans just 14%. That's partly because of the aging population, but also because of tougher mortgage standards and higher student loan debt, the researchers said.   Related: Almost half of US families can't afford basics like rent and food   "Tight credit can limit the scope for renters to become owners and for current homeowners to access their equity," said Beverly Hirtle, executive vice president and director of research at the New York Fed.   The shift in housing wealth distribution could have long-term effects on the nation's housing cycle, the New York Fed researchers warned. It also leaves far less cushion for those younger Americans or low-credit-score borrowers in harder financial times.   In times of hardship, homeowners can use a portion of the equity they've accumulated in their homes to bridge financial shortfalls. Equity is the difference between the value of your home and how much you owe on your mortgage.   Related: It's really tough to be a homebuyer in Seattle   "The distribution is important, as it reflects who will likely bear the burden when the next economic downturn occurs," Hirtle said.   The findings were part of the New York Fed's household debt report, which showed that American households carried $13.21 trillion in debt in the first quarter, up 0.5% from the fourth quarter of last year.   Americans are also doing a better job paying off credit card balances, and the delinquency rate of their mortgages has continued to improve, according to the report.Almost half of US families can't afford basics like rent and food
The economy may be chugging along, but many Americans are still struggling to afford a basic middle class life.  Nearly 51 million households don't earn enough to afford a monthly budget that includes housing, food, child care, health care, transportation and a cell phone, according to a study released Thursday by the United Way ALICE Project. That's 43% of households in the United States.   Related: Unemployment is below 4% for the first time since 2000   The figure includes the 16.1 million households living in poverty, as well as the 34.7 million families that the United Way has dubbed ALICE -- Asset Limited, Income Constrained, Employed. This group makes less than what's needed "to survive in the modern economy."   "Despite seemingly positive economic signs, the ALICE data shows that financial hardship is still a pervasive problem," said Stephanie Hoopes, the project's director.   Related: How Joe Biden would fix income inequality in America   California, New Mexico and Hawaii have the largest share of struggling families, at 49% each. North Dakota has the lowest at 32%.   Many of these folks are the nation's child care workers, home health aides, office assistants and store clerks, who work low-paying jobs and have little savings, the study noted. Some 66% of jobs in the US pay less than $20 an hour.   The study also drilled down to the county level.   For instance, in Seattle's King County, the annual household survival budget for a family of four (including one infant and one preschooler) in 2016 was nearly $85,000. This would require an hourly wage of $42.46. But in Washington State, only 14% of jobs pay more than $40 an hour.   Related: Seattle passes a smaller version of the 'Amazon tax'   Seattle's City Council just passed a controversial tax on big businesses to help alleviate the city's growing homelessness and affordable housing problems.To stay competitive, US call centers are training workers to be super agents
Manufacturing isn't the only sector that has sent American jobs overseas over the past decade.  It has also been happening in the service sector. US companies have shipped thousands of call center jobs to countries like India and the Philippines, where labor is cheap and English skills are good enough to answer basic questions from halfway around the world.   According to data collected by the Site Selection Group, a real estate consulting firm, the pace of call center jobs added in the rest of the world has exceeded those created in the United States since 2014. And that doesn't count the nearly 18,200 jobs lost in 2017 from call centers closing in the United States.   Now, though, the economic winds are slowly starting to push call center jobs back toward America's shores. The workers who remain in the United States will be better trained to deal with customer needs, analysts and industry executives say — and likely be paid better as a result.   This will be thanks, in part, to automation, which has also helped the American manufacturing workforce become more competitive with foreign markets. Even though less human labor is required overall, automated technology helps make each employee more productive and makes it more cost-effective to keep jobs in America.   Related: In rural America, building the internet for everyone has stalled   In the call center world, the introduction of interactive voice response technology — which asks callers for basic information about who they are and what they want before routing them to an agent — has already cut down the amount of staff time needed to resolve each inquiry.   Now, smarter bots can interact with customers both online and over the phone, taking care of the simpler questions that companies used to send to workers overseas.   "The chatbots are replacing the offshore contact centers that are pure rote," said Priya Iyer, the CEO of Vee24, which sells customer engagement software that helps power chatbots and other platforms. "They will always get the answers right."   But for questions that stump the bots, companies want to make sure interactions are as useful as possible, especially as more customers look for help while shopping online. So they're investing in training US workers to better answer their questions, keep them happy and even sell them more stuff — all of which helps justify paying higher wages.   Iyer imagines a Home Depot staff member who could tell you what you need to start a do-it-yourself remodel with the help of videoconferencing, for example, or a stylist from a retailer who could help you choose an outfit using virtual reality.   More companies are also employing "super agents" who can deal with all of a customer's problems at once, rather than routing them all over the world for each individual question. Others have agents who can answer calls from many businesses at a time, using special dispatching systems that pull up scripts for different clients as inquiries come in.   Pulling that off, however, requires companies to spend money on what has traditionally been thought of as a "low-skilled" workforce. In today's tight labor market, it also helps if they provide workers with an incentive to stick around, such as a chance to advance at the company or earn more — perks typically offered to in-house workers, rather than outsourced ones.   Related: American workers who lose jobs in a trade war won't get much help   "If you're going to have a traditional churn-and-burn type call center, you're going to really struggle to attract candidates," said David Hadobas, president of CCNG, Inc., a Fort Worth, Texas-based networking organization for call center professionals. "If it's a stepping stone, you're going to learn the business from the customer side and we'll push you throughout the organization — that's a whole different proposition then 'put on a headset and shut up.'"   Following its acquisition of Time Warner Cable in 2016, for example, cable provider Charter Communications announced it would be adding thousands of call center jobs in places like McAllen, Texas, that it had previously contracted out. While the company declined to disclose exactly how many people it had hired, Charter said that call handling times have gone down since bringing the work in-house.   "Investing in its own locally based workforce with more training and better wages and craftsmanship results in higher-quality service and drives value into our business," said spokesman Francois Claude.   Whether US companies employ more American or foreign customer service agents doesn't only depend on economic forces, though. Politics and policy matter, too.   During the Great Recession, the Federal Communications Commission convened a coalition of US call center firms called Jobs4America that pushed clients to keep their operations in the United States by emphasizing the risks and complications of going overseas, such as fraud, travel time for executives and lower customer satisfaction.   Matt Zemon, the former chair of Jobs4America and CEO of an outsourcing firm called Bernard, said they convinced plenty of companies that offshoring wasn't as profitable as they initially thought. "What was the true cost per sale?" Zemon asked. "Sometimes it's just bringing different metrics to someone's attention."   The group ceased operations, however, when President Obama left office and leadership changed at the FCC.   Related: In Paul Ryan's backyard, good jobs are moving to Canada   Still, many companies continue to offshore call center jobs in order to cut costs. Take AT&T, one of the largest employers of customer service agents in the country. According to the Communications Workers of America, a union that represents about 100,000 AT&T workers, the company has closed 44 call centers in the United States over the past seven years, cutting 16,000 jobs.   A company spokesman declined to confirm how many call center workers AT&T has hired or cut over time. However, Convergys, one of AT&T's major outsourcers, said during a recent earnings call that much of its work for the telecom giant has been moved to cheaper foreign call centers.   (AT&T's planned acquisition of Time Warner, CNN's parent company, has been challenged by the federal government. A judge is set to rule on the deal by next month.)   Rather than outsourcing, some companies are starting their own overseas call centers. Amazon (AMZN) has thousands of customer service workers in Costa Rica, according to Site Selection. Uber last year added 500 people to its call center in Hyderabad, India, and Wells Fargo (WFC) laid off call center workers in Pennsylvania last year while adding more jobs in the Philippines. For these reasons, analyst firm Ibisworld projects call center employment in the United States will only grow at 1.3% per year through 2022, slower than the national average.   To try to stem the flow of jobs to other countries, House and Senate Democrats have supported a bill that would require the disclosure of all call centers that big companies send offshore, and for customers to be notified where the worker answering their calls are located. They also wrote a letter this month asking President Trump to issue an executive order that would deny federal contracts to companies with call centers overseas.   That letter has yet to be answered.Once a teenage runaway, he now owns a $300 million restaurant empire
When Cameron Mitchell had his life-changing epiphany at the age of 19, he had pretty much hit rock-bottom. He had dropped out of high school, he was living with his mom and he was working two restaurants jobs in order to get by.  "I was lazy and going nowhere really," said Mitchell. Punctuality for him was a problem, too. He had showed up late to work so many times in one month that it had resulted in a three-day suspension.   Then it hit him when he got back to work. "It was a busy Friday afternoon with pandemonium in the kitchen. Staff was changing from the morning to evening shift," recalled Mitchell. "It was as if time froze. I thought, 'I love this. I love being in a restaurant.'"   That night, Mitchell drew a road map with ambitious career goals for himself: executive chef by age 23, general manager of a restaurant by 24, vice president of operations by 30.   In the 35 years since that moment, Mitchell has far exceeded those goals. In fact, he has built a restaurant empire.   Mitchell, now 54, launched his privately held company Cameron Mitchell Restaurants in 1993 and now owns and operates 55 restaurants across the country offering everything from fine dining to steakhouses to gastropubs. His chain of casual dining restaurants known as The Rusty Bucket Restaurant & Tavern was launched in 2002 and now has 23 locations. Plus, he also operates a large catering business.   The combined businesses employ nearly 4,000 workers (more than half are full-time). The business is profitable, he said, and generates $300 million in annual revenue.   "For me, the goal was never to build just one restaurant," said Mitchell.   She built a $2 million company while raising 14 kids   Still, becoming a successful entrepreneur was the last thing on his mind when Mitchell was growing up in Columbus, Ohio.   "I was a high school dropout, a runaway, I was last in my class and I took drugs," he said.   The downward spiral began after he turned nine and his parents separated. "I started smoking in 7th grade and doing drugs and alcohol by 8th grade," said Mitchell.   When his mother threatened a meeting with child protective services about his behavior, he ran away. For a few months, he lived with other runaway kids. "I robbed and stole, but was never arrested," he said.   The night before his junior year started, he called his mother and asked to come back home. "I don't know what happened, but I wanted to make amends," he said.   When his mother couldn't afford to give him lunch money, he took a job at a local steakhouse. "I worked all through high school, but it was for the beer money and Taco Bell," said Mitchell.   He came close to graduating on time, but couldn't after he failed one class.   Even though his grade point average was just a 1.05 -- ranking him 592 out of 599 in his graduating class -- Mitchell was well-liked at school and voted president of his senior class.   "I was a troubled guy, but deep down I knew I was a good guy," he said.   Related: Superstar burger chef credits prison for his success   When Mitchell had his epiphany, he laid out a plan to pursue his goals.   To get started, he set his sights on being accepted into the prestigious Culinary Institute of America. But first, he had to take classes over the summer to get his high school degree.   He applied to the Culinary Institute of America but his grades weren't up to par. So Mitchell attended a local community college, retook some classes and improved his grades. After six months, he reapplied and was accepted. He graduated with his culinary arts degree two years later.   After graduation, Mitchell was hired as a sous-chef at a new restaurant in Columbus. A year later, he was promoted to executive chef. He was 23 at the time and had hit his goal.   When Mitchell started to hit every milestone he set out for himself, he realized he was ready to go out on his own. He was 28 and heading up operations for a local restaurant group. "I left my job and for three weeks I sat in my apartment and studied business books," he said.   He needed to raise at least $400,000 to open a restaurant. So for the next year, he tapped into the network he had built in the restaurant industry, approaching friends, business contacts, even his attorney for capital.   In October, 1993, Mitchell opened -- Cameron's American Bistro -- in Worthington, Ohio. The following year, he opened his second, and a third one followed a year after that.   Related: In Camden, this group helps low-income kids launch careers   Mitchell says he isn't slowing down anytime soon. He wants to keep innovating and expanding.   "I absolutely love the restaurant business. I love it so much I tell people I haven't gone to 'work' for 20 years," he said.   That's not to say he hasn't weathered tough times. "This is a difficult industry and closure rates are high. Too many times people get in who really shouldn't be running a restaurant," he said.   Mitchell said he's been able to get through the rough patches by staying committed to his employees and customers.   "Every employee has a little red book reminding them about our culture, mission and values. If you treat people great, they take care of you," he said. "In the restaurant industry, they say guests come first. I'm brazen enough to say no. Our associates come first."Did China make a $200 billion trade offer to the US? Beijing says no
China and the United States are offering different accounts of what has been discussed in high-stakes talks this week to avoid a trade war.  US officials on Thursday told CNN that Beijing had proposed boosting Chinese purchases of American goods by around $200 billion in an attempt to reduce the massive trade imbalance between the two countries.   But at a regular news briefing in Beijing on Friday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang denied such an offer had been made.   "These rumors are not true," he said.   Top officials from the two countries held talks in Washington on Thursday aimed at finding a way out of their bitter trade dispute. The United States and China have threatened in recent months to slap tariffs on tens of billions of dollars of each other's products.   Lu declined to provide more details on the negotiations, which are set to continue Friday, other than to describe them as "constructive."   China also said Friday that it's removing a huge import tax it recently imposed on US exports of sorghum, a move likely to help ease trade tensions.   Related: Peter Navarro and Steven Mnuchin feuded at Beijing trade talks   The US officials had said the idea of increasing China's purchases of American goods by $200 billion increase was just a proposal by the Chinese side and no agreements had been reached.   The number reflected one of the US demands presented to the Chinese government during the first round of talks, which took place in Beijing earlier this month. The demand called for China to cut its trade surplus with the United States by $200 billion by the end of 2020.     Experts say China, which bought $130 billion of American goods last year, would struggle to significantly ramp up the amount in a short space of time -- and $200 billion would be a staggering increase.   "It's unclear how exactly China gets to this number," said Alex Wolf, an emerging markets economist at Aberdeen Standard Investments.   He pointed out that China could try to shift its purchases of industrial machinery and similar goods from countries like Germany and Japan to the United States. But that could cause disruptions to supply chains and create tensions with those countries. It's also not certain the US economy could easily supply the kind of machinery China needs.   Related: Executives sound off on Trump's proposed China tariffs   American companies would need time to adjust to a huge jump in demand from China.   "They could redirect their Airbus (EADSF) purchases to Boeing (BA), but its unrealistic for Boeing to have to meet that order book, at least in the short term," Wolf said.   And whatever it offers the United States, the Chinese government is likely to want something in return.   That could include removing restrictions on the export to China of certain advanced American technologies, according to Larry Hu, an economist at investment bank Macquarie. But the US government "might not be willing to do that," he added.     China has also been pressing the United States to lift a crippling ban on the sale of American parts to ZTE, (ZTCOF) a big Chinese maker of smartphones and telecommunications equipment.   President Donald Trump said Sunday that he was working on giving ZTE "a way to get back into business, fast," adding that he had instructed the US Commerce Department to "get it done."   Thursday's meetings included one in the Oval Office between Trump and Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, the top economic adviser to Chinese President Xi Jinping.   Related: Trump says 'nothing has happened' with ZTE   The US government has also been pressuring China to change its industrial policies aimed at boosting Chinese high-tech industries.   Beijing has signaled it's not interested in changing a strategy it views as crucial for developing its economy. But US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer has clearly linked the threat to impose heavy tariffs on at least $50 billion of Chinese products to Beijing's ambitious plans to become a global leader in industries like robotics and electric vehicles.   "China wants it to just be about the trade deficit. They want it to be a numbers issue," Wolf said.   Related: China wants its top tech firms to bring their shares home   The Chinese Commerce Ministry's announcement Friday that it is ending its measures against US sorghum exports is likely to come as a relief to American farmers. Beijing had previously accused them of dumping the crop, which is typically used to feed animals, on its markets.   The ministry said in statement the heavy import charges it placed on US sorghum last month "are not in line with the public interest."   Lu, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, said observers shouldn't "over-interpret" the decision on sorghum as being directly related to the trade talks in Washington.   -- Steven Jiang, Jethro Mullen and Serenitie Wang contributed to this report.Italy may soon have a new government. Will that lead to Europe's next crisis?
Populists are on the verge of forming a new government in Italy, the third biggest economy in the eurozone.  They've dropped some of their most explosive election campaign pledges, such as calling for a referendum on whether Italy should abandon the euro, or leave the European Union.   But a prospective coalition of the anti-establishment Five Star Movement (M5S) and far-right League party is promising a spending and tax-cutting binge that has rattled investors and could contain the seeds of a new European crisis.   The Milan stock index has slumped 2.5% this week, compared to a 0.6% gain in the wider European market, with banking stocks pulling the index down. Italian government bond prices have also fallen, indicating concern about the heavily-indebted country's commitment to fiscal discipline.   As a country that uses the euro, Italy has agreed to abide by EU budget rules designed to keep the currency stable. During the election campaign, the two parties called for them to be scrapped.   They appear to have dropped that demand, according to a draft coalition program published Friday, but still want the rules reviewed. And the program contains no proposals for funding its costly tax cuts and spending pledges.   100 billion black hole   "Their plans on fiscal policy would result in a huge increase in the deficit, a blatant violation of EU deficit rules," said Federico Santi, an analyst at Eurasia Group.   "If implemented in their current form [these proposals] would still result in an additional €100 billion ($117.8 billion) in additional spending or lower revenue."   Italy is a founding member of the European Union and the eurozone. But years of economic stagnation and lack of reform have seen its government debt soar to 132% of GDP, the second worst ratio in the region after Greece.   Unlike Greece, which is only just beginning to emerge from eight years of bailouts, the Italian economy is big enough to throw the entire eurozone into disarray if it suffers a debt crisis.   Italy accounts for about 15% of eurozone GDP and 23% of the bloc's public debt, according to data from Berenberg Bank.   "For comparison, Greece contributes 1.8% to eurozone GDP and 3.3% to its pile of public debt," said Holger Schmieding, the bank's chief economist.   Universal income & tax cuts   The draft coalition agreement is promising to deliver, at least partially, on three of the parties' key election pledges.   It envisions a minimum basic income of €780 ($917) a month for the poorest Italians, funded by the state. M5S said during the campaign that the basic income would cost €15 billion ($18.5 billion) a year.   Tax cuts would likely take a further bite out of Italy's government finances. The document doesn't provide details, but says the two parties want to introduce new income tax rates of between 15% to 20%.   And while the two parties are no longer planning to reverse a recent pension reform, they are calling for the retirement age to come down.   "Even if watered down further and introduced more incrementally, [the proposals] would still result in a significant deviation from EU targets, and would be more than enough to undermine market confidence," said Santi.   Capital Economics estimates the policy proposals would cause Italy's public debt to rise to over 150% of GDP over the next five years.   Some way to go   There are still hoops for the populist parties to jump through before they form a government. They still have to reveal their nominee for prime minister, and that person has to be accepted by Italian President Sergio Mattarella.   They then have to win a vote of confidence in parliament.   Investors are hoping the proposals might end up being significantly watered down.   "Italy's complex political system is designed to retard change," Schmieding said.India is freaking out about rising oil prices 
A spike in oil prices has the world's third largest consumer of energy worried.  India is seeking assurances from Saudi Arabia, OPEC's biggest producer, that oil prices will remain "stable and moderate," its government said in a statement on Friday.   Energy minister Dharmendra Pradhan spoke with Saudi oil minister Khalid Al-Falih late on Thursday to "express his concern about rising prices and its negative impact on consumers and the Indian economy," it said.   World oil prices have spiked by nearly 20% in 2018, and are up more than 40% over the past 12 months. President Donald Trump's decision to pull out of the Iran nuclear deal -- leading to concerns about Iranian supplies -- and a collapse in Venezuelan production have accelerated the price rise in recent weeks.   Brent crude, the global benchmark, crossed $80 per barrel on Thursday, while US crude futures hit $71.60 per barrel early Friday, their highest level since 2014.   $80 is 'way above reasonable'   Oil markets were already getting tighter following nearly 18 months of a deal between OPEC and Russia to curb their output to mop up a supply glut.   "We're not saying oil should be $25 a barrel, it should be at a price that is reasonable," Sanjay Sudhir, joint secretary for international cooperation at India's energy ministry, told CNNMoney. "$80 is way above a reasonable price, this is not a market-driven price."   Related: What is the perfect price for oil?   Al-Falih told his Indian counterpart that Saudi Arabia would work with other OPEC producers and Russia "to "ensure availability of adequate supplies to offset any potential shortfalls," the kingdom's official news agency said.   OPEC and Russia discuss next move   Saudi Arabia has been discussing how to respond to the recent market volatility with the United Arab Emirates, the current OPEC president, and they'll consult with Russia next week on the sidelines of a conference in St. Petersburg, the agency reported. OPEC producers are due to meet in June to review their production cuts.   India has long been a major buyer of Iranian oil, though it has diversified its supply over the past few years through deals with Russia and, more recently, Saudi Arabia. The kingdom's state oil giant, Saudi Aramco, signed a a $44 billion deal last month to build a "mega refinery" in India with a consortium of Indian oil companies.   Indian concerns about oil price rises are understandable. Low oil prices played a big role in making it the world's fastest growing major economy in the recent years.   Every $10 increase in the price of a barrel knocks 0.2% to 0.3% off India's growth rate, according to the country's latest economic survey.   And growth in energy demand will be faster in India over the next two decades than any other country in the world, OPEC said in its World Oil Outlook 2040 released in November.   Related: India, not China, will lead future demand for energy   That demand could be threatened if oil prices keep rising, however.   "[India's] consumption will struggle to continue at its current pace, should oil prices continue to rise," analysts at BMI Research wrote in a recent note.   -- Ivana Kottasova contributed to this report